Houston, we've got 103 by 89.5.
Roger, Apollo 9. Copy.
And,
Roger.
And your CMC is go; it is valid.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, the S-IVB has been safed.
Roger, safed. Do you have our apogee and perigee?
Not yet, Apollo 9. Stand by.
Okay.
Apollo 9, the S-IVB has been configured for orbit. It's looking real good, and your SPS helium is solid as a rock.
Roger, We copy. Thanks a lot.
Roger.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Roger. Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, We've got Canaries here. You can configure Simplex Alpha.
Apollo 9, Houston. Did you copy?
Apollo 9, Houston. Do you read?
Roger, Houston. Five-by. How us?
Okay. You're coming in five-square. We switched over all right, I guess, and everything looks good.
Roger. What kind of orbit did you get us in?
We don't have it yet, Apollo 9. We are still running it through the computers.
Okay.
Apollo 9. Houston.
Go, Houston. Apollo 9.
Roger, with our S-band radar we're showing you 107 by 98.9 as the first cut.
Roger 107, 98.9.
And we are continuing to massage this, Apollo 9, and we will keep you updated.
Roger. Understand.
Apollo 9, Houston. We've got 1 minute with you at Canaries, and we will see you over Tananarive at 37.
Roger. Tananarive at 37. Thank you,
It might help, Dave, I don't know. Dave, do you want the floodlights on?
Sir?
Do you want my floodlights on?
Yes, why don't you turn them on?
Hey, the sun's still shining on my side, Rusty.
Oh, it is really?
Yes.
Hey, they're not bad through the telescope, Jim.
They're not, huh?
Not bad at all.
Good. Got something you recognize?
Oh, yes. (garbled)
Hello, Apollo 9. This is Houston. Do you read?
Hey, I can see it. I can see the stars now.
Shoot, I got Orion.
Still daylight, Jim?
Heck, yes. I can see a star. How do you like that?
Your baby.
Were they really?
Yes.
Can you really? Well, we're pitching around pretty fast.
Yes. I never got either one.
Hello, Apollo 9. Houston through Tananarive.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Tananarive.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, Apollo 9. Our Canary data shows your orbit at 103.9 by 102.3.
Roger. Understand 103.9 by 102.3.
That is affirmative, and that changes slightly as the S-IVB vents, but that was a pretty good hack at it on Canary.
That's not a bad boost, then.
No, we had 88 by 138.
Gee, that's not too hot.
And we'll have you here at Tananarive for about another 5 minutes.
Roger.
Hey, Jimmy. There's the first one.
How about that!
Hey, look at that.
First star, huh? Stand by. David says his first star angle is five balls.
Great going, Dave.
Hey, Jim. (garbled) do a fine align.
Houston, Apollo 9. Did you copy the torquing angles?
We have no data here at Tananarive, Dave. You'll have to read them to me.
Oh, very well. GET was 39:00; plus 00.116, minus 00.032, minus 00.108.
Roger, Apollo 9; this is Houston. I copy the time and the angles. Thank you.
Works like a charm.
Roger, looks like the platform was right there. And that was a nice speedy job on that 52.
Good old Auto optics.
I see. Copy.
Hey, I've got the Moon out here.
Yes, man.
Oh, hey, isn't that pretty? Gee, hot diggity.
(Laughter)
Jettison the dust covers; I think if we were flying over some storm now, I see some lightning out there. Jettison the dust covers; backup comm check. Have you done that, Rusty?
No, I haven't done that backup comm check --
That's Carnarvon.
Yes. And (garbled) purge checks, caution and warning system, SCS attitude reference comparison. Okay, wait just a minute.
That Moon really wipes out the star field. Ooh! (garbled)
The what is?
These pencils. The one I have doesn't have any Velcro on it. The Velcro's all worn off. Can you imagine that?
That's because you've been using it so much.
No, there's no knob - nub on it. Okay, we've got the - I'm going to go to the flight plan, here in a minute. I see I made a terrible mistake. I should have brought the whole mini-flight plan with me.
I - I got mine, Jim, if you need one.
I have the first day, but I should have brought the rest of it, too.
Main Bus ties are off. Okay.
Okay, we got to prepare the cameras - the Hasselblad and the sequence camera.
I'll unstow the checklist and the cameras. We don't need the checklist; we've got them - GDC align --
Roger. 52 at Carnarvon.
Carnarvon at 52.
Okay, first star check on Regor. Right there.
Is it really? Great.
Regor has a little (garbled) on it.
You wouldn't recognize Regor if you saw it. (Laughter)
I'll tell you, I wouldn't recognize Regor if (garbled)
Oh, is that right?
Yes, should be 34 to 38.
A and B are 32. C is 37. Battery -
Hey, Dave, are you in 4 Bravo down there?
No, 4 Bravo - What do you mean?
(garbled)
Okay, what does it read?
3.5 volts.
Oow! That's low!
What's that?
Battery relay bus. 3.5, huh?
3.7 (garbled)
Think you're sorry, we wasted all that time (garbled)?
No.
(Laughter)
Yes, go ahead.
Rusty, do you want to turn the cabin fan off (garbled)?
Okay, I'll try them both off.
(Laughter) Just because you're cold, huh? I'll probably find out that my green handles don't (garbled)
Yes, I did. I got the GDC alignments done. Read the other one.
Uhh -
Service module RCS monitoring - You got that?
I did that.
Command module RCS monitoring?
Did that.
Jet - jettison the dust covers - You got that done. I'm waiting for the backup comm check and 52 - P52. (garbled) PIPA bias (garbled)
What the hell am I going to do with an update book. The problem is the whole - the whole (garbled) and we don't even (garbled)
Oh, here. Let me - I'll just stick it temporarily. (garbled)
Okay, the fuel cell purge check; I'm just going to check O2, right?
I don't know, Dave.
Fuel cell purge.
Check, yes.
(garbled) why don't we (garbled) -
Well, all we're supposed to do is check it and see if it doesn't leak anymore.
I'll check it.
Okay, fuel cell 1 purge is okay; fuel cell 2 is - very good.
Okay. (garbled), Davey.
Alright.
Let me give you your (garbled)
Caution and warning checks. Stand by for Master Alarm - no sweat Master Alarm.
Okay, caution and warning lamp test, on. How many are we supposed to have out?
One, two, three, four - all on the bottom row. One, two, three, four are out.
That's good.
Did you get your - your Master Alarm, Jim, up there?
Yes.
Good.
Okay. That looks good - I got that.
I forgot to watch the altimeter during the launch to see if it works.
Okay, Power to off. Okay, caution and warning - checked that. Hey, you installing the optics there, Davey?
Yes, sir.
(garbled)
On the - on the DSKY?
Yes.
I'll do that in just a second.
Okay, and I'm going to go on with the SPS monitor checks.
Anyone remember where we put the checklist?
Right here, I got it.
Okay, why don't you give me the bag, so you won't have to sit there and hold it? That's a good idea.
Oh, this is a heck of a lot harder to operate than the other one.
Well, you just can't put all these (garbled)
Hey, Houston. How do you read Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, this is Houston. Reading you loud and clear through Carnarvon.
Okay. I'm presently in a backup comm check - step five there on LMP 1-2, and I'm on line 5. I got the initial contact, and I got my S-band volume up.
Roger, Understand you are in step 5 and stand by one here.
Roger. And I'm standing by for a go for the backup voice check.
Roger. We will give you a go on that in about 30 seconds here.
Okey-dokey.
Okay. Apollo 9, this is Houston. We are standing by for your voice check on the S-band. Let her rip.
Okay, Apollo 9, this is Houston. I did not copy anything. I got one blast in there sounded like you keyed, and that was all.
Apollo 9, this is Houston on the VHF. Do you read?
Apollo 9. Apollo 9, this is Houston on - via the VHF. Do you read?
Roger, Houston. We read you on VHF. I gave you a call on Downvoice Backup, and evidently you are not reading on it. However, I'm reading you up on the S-band.
Okay, and we confirmed with the site that we did not get an S-band downlink on that one, Rusty.
Roger. We will be standing by for suggestions. Let me just give you my configuration here, if you want to copy that.
Go.
Okay. I'm on the primary transponder, and I'm reading you okay - up okay. Everything else is in Normal there. Going across, I've got the ranging switch off, I've got the S-band Aux Tape in Downvoice Backup. I've got the power PMP back up to Normal, and everything else is vanilla.
Roger. I copy that, Apollo 9. Let us mull that over. We are going to have you here about another minute at Carnarvon, and then we are going to pick up over Honeysuckle at about 50 - it'll be just about on the hour, so have your S-band volumes up at that time.
Roger. And be advised, we are rushing on through all our checklist here, and we've got most everything done. The fuel cell purge check checked out okay.
Roger, Sounds great and, Apollo 9, you are go for 6-4.
Roger. Go for 6-4.
And, Houston, be advised that I'm going to go out of this backup comm check configuration here and go back to Normal.
Roger, Let's meet you over Honeysuckle in normal configuration just about on the hour.
Roger.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Honeysuckle.
You're 5-square on S-band, Apollo - or Houston.
Roger. You're - that's really great, Rusty. You're coming in, and if you want to try this backup comm check again, we can support it. It's dealer's choice. And just as we were leaving Carnarvon, the downlink appeared to be coming through on the backup.
Okay. Why don't we forego it right now, and we'll try to check that at some quiet period.
Roger. We concur.
Here, let me see if that (garbled) gauge - No, N2A and N2B look okay, and it's just the SPS pressure that's down.
Okay, that sounds like we've got a good (garbled) bad news if (garbled)
Yes, wouldn't it?
Whether we (garbled) it or not. Well, I guess there's no sense in monitoring that thing.
No (laughter). (garbled) I don't know whether it was the (garbled) coming off or what it was. I think it came out of that hole up there.
Rusty, do you have any (garbled)?
Yes, I got a bag.
Let me (garbled)
Hey, you know you can see the Earth real good now. My God!
See the what?
Earth. See it?
Let me turn my floods down (garbled) Hey, we're coming back into some daylight.
Dave, that backup - that data is on the back of that sheet. Yes, you see how to write it into the block update stuff here?
I'll just (garbled) right here.
Okay, (garbled)
Okay, let's do the PIPA bias (garbled)
And, Apollo 9, this is Houston. We are going to lose you here at Honeysuckle in about 40 seconds, and we will see you over Huntsville in about 3 minutes.
Roger.
Did you get the fuel cell purge checked, Rusty?
Yes.
(garbled)?
Yes, (garbled) S-band (garbled)
Right. I got to find some stupid place to put my helmet now.
Okay, let me recap. That's the end of the checklist as far as I can see. We haven't done the PIPA bias check. You've done the P52, and that's good. You've done your backup - No, you haven't done that yet.
That's not a very good place to - Yes, it is.
Rusty, did you get the ECS monitor check?
Yes, I did.
How about the water gun - is that working?
And, Apollo 9, this is Houston through the Huntsville.
Let's see, Dave, I've got to help you (garbled)
Is it turned off? Okay.
Roger, Houston. Read you loud and clear. How about us?
Hello, Apollo 9, this is Houston. You read through the Huntsville?
You are?
Houston, this is Apollo 9. Do you read us?
You sure get a lot of - a lot of gas in that. (garbled) This tastes better.
Hey, look at that sunrise. Pretty! God, that's beautiful! Oh!
Huntsville is valid in two way (garbled)
Roger, Houston. This is Apollo 9. Do you read me?
Houston, Apollo 9. You're coming through weak, but clear.
Okay, Apollo 9, this is Houston. You're breaking up pretty badly. We don't have much to pass you here - we're only going to have you for about another minute and a half, and we'll talk to you as you come across the States and pass the data to you then.
Get the data book!
I haven't got it. Dave, let me see. What am I doing? I'm trying to find a checklist, huh? Yes, well, here's (garbled) it's got the flight plan, procedures book, and crew log (garbled)
And, Apollo 9, this is Houston if you can read me. We'll see you over the Redstone at about 24.
Roger.
Boy, the sun's come up like thunder over Galway Bay, or something.
Yes, (garbled)
Man, oh man, it's daytime again.
(garbled) checklist (garbled)
(garbled) break lock, isn't it? Pretty definite.
Let's see how the windows are doing.
Mine looks pretty good. I've got - (garbled)
Well, Dave, it's supposed to be in the data card - cloth bag.
I'll be damned if I can't get my temporary stowage bag open for anything!
Oh, hey, let's get these Mae Wests off before we (garbled) down.
Oh, that's a good idea.
Hey, hey, hey.
As a matter of fact, I'll even stow (garbled)
Okay. I'll get my - Cabin pressure's now 5.4 by the way.
Not me, not me!
That sounds like a McDivitt talking.
No, I haven't done it yet. I'm going to save mine up. When I go, buddy, you're going to know it.
Yes, and I'm going to get some (garbled)
Well, at least that's why (garbled) for me.
It's hard as heck to get this thing out of these (garbled), isn't it, Jim?
Yes, I'm going to lose all this stuff (garbled) I've got some time.
Dave, if you got those cameras all (garbled)
Let's see.
Yes.
Dave, you got to move it down (garbled)
Yes, you're able to move around a little bit. I don't have to worry about sticking my feet through the instrument panel.
Boy, that - that damn hardware (garbled)
Yes.
Okay, I'm going to put the lights (garbled)
Well, maybe we ought to just get them all out, Dave.
Yes, let's just get them all out.
Photo (garbled) plan - photo (garbled) plan, it says on day 1.
Hey, if somebody spits, it (garbled) right on (garbled) stuff.
(Laughter)
Hey, I wonder if we ought to tape up our pens.
Tape up our pens?
Yes, tape up our spare pens, so it doesn't evaporate, dry out.
Yes, I know.
Boy, we've been up here an hour already. (garbled) Post-insertion unstowage, mount and initialize ORDEAL, SPS monitor check - Shoot, we're way the hell ahead of schedule. Extend the docking probe (garbled) The next thing that I can see (garbled) that's at 41 - 48 or so.
Maybe you ought to get the big flight plan.
Okay, is the tape recorder on, Mr. Schweickart?
Yes, I guess so (garbled)
You want the little one?
Well, I wanted to do that - debriefing on tape.
I'll get the little one for you.
What else do we need - a camera.
(garbled) The most important thing we need right now is a camera (garbled) so that we have them -
Let's see. Turn the tape recorder on (garbled) During the boost, lift-off was noticeable (garbled) vibrations (garbled) vibrations 1 or 2 seconds. At T minus - T plus 12 minutes, (garbled) roll was noticeable and giving oscillations on the ratemeter of about 1 degree per second (garbled) vibrations and oscillations (garbled), and no problems during the (garbled) --
Apollo 9, this is Houston through the Redstone. Standing by.
Roger. Thank you.
It was very quiet up until about 50 seconds and (garbled) high peak (garbled) vibrated (garbled) not bad at all (garbled) quiet out again about (garbled) --
Roger, Houston. Apollo 9. How do you read?
You're clear as a bell, Apollo 9; this is Houston.
Roger.
And, Apollo 9, we'd like to confirm that you are in Omni Baker and primary S-band transponder.
Let me do that for you.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. It may be a coincidence, but we lost data just about the time I gave you that transmission to clarify that Omni Baker. Did you change configuration then?
That's affirmative. We are - we were on Delta and I just switched it to Omni for you.
I understand you did go from Delta to Baker and the primary transponder was on. You didn't need to change that, did you?
That's a negative. The primary was on.
How are you doing down there, Smokey?
We're pressing along, Jim. And we're - you can anticipate we'll probably have a state vector we want to uplink over Bermuda or Vanguard - 5 or 10 minutes, and for Rusty's benefit, the backup comm check over Carnarvon was 5-square. It came in - we had a momentary dropout there, but we got it real good.
Goody. We'll write that one off then.
Okay. We have got all of the checklist done except the glycol and some things that we're going to do right now. And we haven't taken the PIPA bias check either. I guess you guys want to do that.
Roger. We'll try it. We have no data right now, 9.
And, Apollo 9, this is Houston. For your info we do have our data coming in now solid. And Jim - for the bias check - we really will get a good one on you after TD&E.
And, Houston, Apollo 9.
Go, Apollo 9.
Roger. We just got a Master Alarm cryo press here on the number 1 H2 tank. It's just off the lower limit here. You might want to take a look at that.
Roger, Apollo 9. We copy. We'll see what we can do for you.
Okay, and the heater just came on, and it's going back up again. It looks like it's just tickling the Master Alarm there before it decides to heat up.
Roger, Apollo 9. Copy.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. That's probably SimSup just playing with the tolerances a little bit.
Yes, could be.
