Apollo 9, Houston.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Houston, this is Apollo 9.
Good morning, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston. You're getting a little low on the H2 cryo tanks pressure. We'd like you to turn the H2 number 2 fan, On, and the configuration for H2 tank 1 would be fans Off, and 1 and 2 heaters Off.
I missed the first part of that. Would you start over again, please?
Roger. Dave, turn the H2 tank 2 fan, On, and leave the H2 tank 1 fan, Off, and the 1 and 2 heaters Off.
Okay. H2 fan 2 is On, 1 is Off; both heaters for H2 are Off.
Roger.
And my tank.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston. Go.
What do you want to do about our switch configuration when we get powered up? Do you want to go back to sort nominal switch configuration, or do you want to leave that inverter on and the S-band in Secondary?
Apollo 9, Houston. Stand by. We'll get a reading on that for you.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. You can leave the S-band in Secondary for now and go ahead and turn the inverter off.
Okay. I'll leave the S-band in Secondary, and the inverter's coming off.
Roger.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger, Dave. I've only got a minute left here at Canaries. We'll start today for you at Carnarvon with the updates and the plan for the day.
Okay. What time will that be? How long from now?
Roger. That will be about a half hour, 17 05.
All right. Thank you. You're all set.
Roger. See you then.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston. Go.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go, Houston. This is Apollo 9.
Roger, Apollo 9. If you've got a pencil ready, we will start on the update.
Roger. How do you read me?
I'm reading you loud and clear, Dave.
Okay. That's Rusty. And good morning there, Sonny.
Good morning, Jimmy. You ready to copy some updates?
All set.
Okay, we'll give you the flight plan updates first. At 117 55, begin Batt A charge. That's Batt Alpha charge; 118 00, CO2 filter change number 10; fuel cell O2 purge. At approximately 119 30, after breakfast, chlorinate potable water.
Delete 113 118 40, P51.
You want to delete that P51 at 118 40?
That is affirmative. At 120 02, P51 and P52 to preferred.
Okay.
121 40 end Batt Alpha charge. SPS-6. TIG is 121 48 58. 122 00 begin Batt A charge. Delete 125 30 S065; add landmark tracking. Perform P52, that's P52, to nominal alignment at 124 35. Time of align to be updated. Add 128 50, waste water dump. Note: first SO65 exercise remains as scheduled and...
Wait.
Roger. Go head.
Note number 2: the landmark tracking is for practice and will be only one landmark. And before we get to Honeysuckle, you can turn up your S-band volume.
Okay, Sonny. I'll read most of that back to you now. I've got a 117 55 begin Batt A charge. 118 00 CO2 filter change number 10 and fuel cell number O2 purge. At about 119 30, after breakfast, chlorinate the potable H2O. There was something at 118 40 that I missed. How about giving me that one?
Roger. At 118 40, delete P51.
Okay. And I've got perform P51 and P52 at 120 50.
That's perform P51 and P52 at 120 02.
Okay. P51 and P52 to preferred at 120 02. End the Batt A charge at 120 40. At 121 48 58 SPS-6 TIG. At 122 00 resume Batt A charging. 125 30 delete 5065; in its place add landmark tracking with tracking on one landmark for drill, and P52 to a nominal alignment; then you are going to update the T-align. And that will be done at about 124 30; and at 128 50, a waste water dump.
Roger. That's correct, Apollo 9. And you can turn up your S-band now. We're coming up on Honeysuckle.
Roger.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. Just to warn you. We've had a little trouble with S-band. We might not pick you up here.
Apollo 9, Houston through Honeysuckle.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 9.
Roger. There you are.
I have a question on SO65 on this update.
Roger. Go ahead.
Okay. You still want us to do the SO65 that we unstow for and we are supposed to do at 124 00. Is that correct?
And you want us to delete the one at 125 30?
Apollo 9. Let me get the words on that, and I will call you back.
Okay.
Let me give you the consumables update in the meantime.
You ready to copy?
Ready to copy.
Okay. At 117: 47 20 55 26 49 27 50 27 402 3233 2939. And I'd like to give you the service module DAP redline: quad A, 36; quad B, 47; quad C, 49; quad D, 49. Over.
Okay. We got 117: 47 20 55 26 49 27 50 27 402 3233 2939. Service module DAP redline: A, 36; B, 47; C, 49; D, 48.
Roger. Apollo 9, Houston. Copy. That's correct.
Bankers' hours today, right?
Oh, we watched you while you were sleeping.
How did we look?
You're looking pretty good.
Hey, we finally got to bed last night at 107 hours and something. I figure we had a nice 26-hour day yesterday.
You had nice 10-hour night, too.
Yes. That was a lot of fun, too.
Sorry we had to wake you up. Incidentally, on that H2 tank - There are no plans today to do anything about the tank. We are just going to watch it.
Okay. That's tank number 1, the low one?
Roger. Tank number 1.
Roger. Houston, you might comment on the status of the high bit rate, too. Whether you want it to stay in HIGH, or if you want to try to switch it again, or what.
Roger. When you get over the States, we've got a troubleshooting routine here we want go through to see if we can figure out what the problem is, but we won't tackle that until we get to the States.
Okay.
Okay. Are you ready for a block update number 13?
Give me about 2 seconds here.
All right.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. Block update number 13. We probably won't be able to get all of it. We will go as far as we can. 075 1 Alpha, plus 290, minus 0682 117 36 36 4092; 076 2 Bravo, plus 307, minus 0330 119 17 43 4092; 077 2 Bravo, plus 227, minus 0329 120 52 15 4092; 078 1 Alpha, plus 280, minus 0690 122 17 41 4092; 079 - Roger. Okay.
Houston, Apollo 9. We have a good lock on that. How do you read?
Apollo 9, Houston. Loud and clear.
Okay. First...
Go ahead.
Start with a longitude, the third line in 076 2 Bravo.
Roger. We'll start out with longitude in block 076 2 Bravo. That's minus 0330 119 17 43 4092; 077 2 Bravo, plus 227, minus 0329 120 52 15 4092; 078 1 Alpha, plus 280, minus 0690 122 17 41 4092; 079 4 Alpha, plus 318, minus 1705 125 02 33 3343; 080 4 Bravo, plus 337, minus 1705 126 36 09 3343; 081 4 Alpha, plus 310, minus 1705 128 09 44 3343; 082 Delta Charlie, plus 179, minus 1600 129 46 43 3343. The SPS gimbal trim for REV 75 1 Alpha through 78 1 Alpha: pitch, minus 089; yaw, minus 112. For REV 79 4 Alpha through 82 Delta Charlie, trim angles are pitch, minus 089; and yaw, minus 115. Over.
Okay. Just - You ready to read back, Al?
Roger, Apollo 9. Go ahead.
Okay. I'll read it back pretty fast here. 075 1 Alpha, plus 290, minus 0682 117 36 36 4902; 076 2 Bravo, plus 307, minus 0330 119 17 43 4092; 077 2 Bravo, plus 227, minus 0329 120 52 15 4092; 078 1 Alpha, plus 280, minus 0690 122 17 41 4092; 079 4 Alpha, plus 318, minus 1705 125 02 33 3343; 080 4 Bravo, plus 337, minus 1705 126 36 09 3343. Turn the page, and then it's 081 4 Alpha, plus 310, minus 1705 128 09 44 3343; 082 Delta Charlie, plus 179, minus 1600 129 46 43 3343. SPS trim for 75 and 78: pitch, minus 0.89; yaw, minus 1.12. REV 79 through 82: pitch, minus 0.89; minus 1.15.
Roger. Apollo 9, Houston. Copy correct, and the answer to your question on SO65 at 124 is yes. Perform the SO65 at 124. It's just deleted at 125 30, and we have a question for you. Did you leave the selectable meter in position battery bus A overnight?
Stand by.
Okay. The answer is probably yes.
Roger. Understand the answer is yes.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 9.
Roger, Apollo 9. Got a couple things here for you, prior to SPS-6.
Okay. Go.
Okay. Before SPS-6, turn quad C and D off on Auto RCS selects in adapt - and in the DAP - I'm sorry. Use BD - Baker, Delta - two-jet ullage for SPS-6 for 18 seconds. Use BD roll for SPS-6 and subsequent activities. Post-SPS-6, you may return to normal two-jet authority.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. When you get a chance, we'd like to get the condition on the windows. And prior to SO65 we'd like you to try and get a picture of the hatch window. Over.
Okay. Hold it Al, that was a bunch. Let me get the first part of that again. For SPS-6 you want us to disable A and C, quads A and C and also A and C in the DAP. And you want us to use B and D ullage for 18 seconds, two jets, and B and D roll for SPS-6 and subsequent roll control. Post-SPS-6 you want us to return, to normal two-jet authority.
Roger, Apollo 9. The last three items were correct. The first one, for your pre-SPS-6 activities, turn quads Charlie and Delta off on the Auto RCS select and in the DAP. That's pre-SPS-6.
Okay. Understand. Pre-SPS-6 you want us to turn Charlie and Delta off on the Auto RCS select and also in the DAP.
That's affirmative, Apollo 9.
Okay. And understand you want to know what the windows look like, and also you want a picture of the hatch window prior to performing SO65.
Apollo 9, Houston. That's correct.
Okay. This is kind of a subject of evaluation, but it seems to me that all the windows are really pretty good when you're looking at the ground or anything that is lighted. If you look at the sky, you can see some smudges on some of the windows, the number two window.
Stand by just a moment.
Roger.
Okay. When you look up at the sky, I get sunlight on the number two window. It's kind of hazy or foggy, but when you are looking at the ground, it appears okay. So it's a fairly light coating. Also, on the hatch window, from time to time, there appears to be a circular area right in the middle of it about 4 or 5 inches in diameter that appears to be foggy. But again, looking at the ground through it, it doesn't seem to be too noticeable.
Roger. Understand.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston. Go.
Okay. One question on the DAP configuration after SPS-6. You want to go to two quads?
Apollo 9, Houston. You can go back to normal - two-jet authority - after SPS-6.
Okay. I guess I understand. You want to use six jets for attitude control total, and when we run the DAP, I guess we use two adjacent quads, is that what you want?
Affirmative, Apollo 9.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We would like to continue on with some troubleshooting on the telemetry command. We would like you to place the up-telemetry data to UpVoice Backup.
Roger. Going to UpVoice Backup.
Roger. And we may have to use VHF for COMM, and we will send you a command tone.
Be advised I have a tone right now, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Roger. Apollo 9, Houston. We just sent you a command.
Roger. From the time I went to UpVoice Backup, I had a steady tone at that time, and it's still the same.
Roger. We'll send you another command.
Apollo 9, Houston. You should get some variations on that steady tone you were hearing when the command is sent.
Roger. I've got my S-band up louder now. Go ahead and send another command.
Roger. We're sending another command. On my Mark.
MARK.
MARK.
Okay. I got, a very slight beep on it.
Roger. We sent you three commands.
Apollo 9, Houston. We sent you three commands. Could you distinguish variation in your tone on three occasions?
Negative. How do you read, Al?
I'm reading you loud and clear, Rusty.
Okay. I was commenting there and didn't hear any response. When you said 3, 2, 1, Mark - About 3 seconds after that, I got a slight interruption in the steady tone. That happened only one time. When you came back on and told me that you sent three commands, in the middle of telling me that, I got another interruption in the tone. And that's all I've heard.
Roger, Rusty. We'll send you one more command on my Mark. 3, 2, 1.
MARK.
Nothing.
Roger. Understand; nothing.
Apollo 9, Houston. We will digest that a little bit and call you back.
Okay.
Houston, I just got another little beep in it.
Roger. Apollo 9, Houston. Understand.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. We would like you to verily the following: flight and postlanding Batt bus A Open.
Flight and postlanding Batt bus A -
Roger. It's Open now. Thank you.
Roger. And on panel 8, we would like for you to verify: SPS pitch 1, yaw 1, Open; and EDS, all three Open.
Okay. The two SPS's were closed; we opened them. The EDS's were all Open.
Roger, Rusty. Understand. And was the flight and postlanding Batt bus A Open when you called? Had it been Open before then?
Negative. It was CLOSED.
Roger. Understand CLOSED.
Houston, we've got a question on the fuel cell purge.
Roger, Apollo 9. Go.
Roger. Yesterday, when fuel cell 3 - rather fuel cell 2 had the high TCE - After we purged it, it dropped way down in performance, and it's still below 1 and 3. We would like to verify that you really want to purge that. We are concerned that it may drop it off the bottom of TCE.
Roger, Apollo 9. Stand by. We will get an answer on that.
Okay.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. Apollo 9, Houston. While we've got a minute here, we would like to get a crew status report from you.
If you are ready, the first question is regarding any illness. How are you feeling now? And want to know what medication you took yesterday and today on all three, and especially what you took yesterday morning, Rusty.
Okay. Everybody is feeling fine, and stand by on the medication.
Roger.
Hello, Al. This is Jim.
Roger, Jim.
Roger. I didn't take anything yesterday or today. I've got some information for RETRO. They wanted to know last night where we were going to stow some things. I've worked out a plan here, if you are ready to copy it down.
Roger. Go.
Okay. We are going to have one suit underneath the left-hand seat, have two suits underneath the center seat. We are going to take the compartment B-1 - We are going to move all the food out of that and use it as a garbage bin, so the density will be much less than it was before. We are going to take the LCG's, the ones that Rusty had been wearing, and fasten them to the floor in the lower equipment bay on top of the lithium hydroxide canisters. We will take the lithium hydroxide canister that we've brought back from the LM and put it on the floor in the lower equipment bay up underneath the suit. And the rest of the stowage will remain essentially the same.
Roger, Jim. Copy. You are going to put one suit under the left-hand seat; you are going to put two suits under the center seat; you are going to take the food out of B-1 and use it garbage bin; you are going to stow one LCG on the floor in the LEB around the lithium hydroxide canisters; you are going to stow the lithium hydroxide canister you brought back from the LM on the floor under the suit; and the rest remains the same.
Roger. We will probably make some other changes, but have them base the weights and CG on that for a while.
Roger. We got that.
Okay.
Okay, Al. This is Rusty again. Yesterday morning I didn't take anything. Last night before I went to bed I took an Actifed and a Seconal.
Roger, Rusty. Understand you. Last night - You didn't take anything yesterday morning, and last night you took one Actifed and one Seconal.
That's affirmative, And Dave didn't take anything at all yesterday.
Roger. Okay. Ready for the next question: how much sleep did you all get last night?
Dave said he got about eight; I got about eight.
Okay. And Busty - I got eight, also.
Roger. Copy. You all got 8 hours.
Okay. We'd like you to do some troubleshooting on the BIOMED harness. We would like each of you to check your sensors. Dave, we didn't get any ECG on you last night. We'd like you to check your sterile sensor in the grounds for a loose sensor, and, if the sensors are secure, to replace the external leads and sensor with a spare.
Okay. We'll do some troubleshooting on the sensors. Dave had his sensors all plugged in last night. I guess you still weren't getting anything. Is that right?
That's affirmative, Jim. And we'd like you - We've got no respiration on you. We'd like to check your axillary sensors.
Okay. I'll check those, and right now neither Dave or I are plugged into the BIOMED. I don't t know about Rusty.
Yes, I'm plugged in. How do mine look? Do you want any troubleshooting on mine, Al?
Okay. Stand by one, Rusty.
And Dave and I will get plugged in as soon as we get through doing some chores here.
Roger, Rusty. We're not getting anything on you.
Okay. Be advised I can give you a little bit of information on mine right now. I've had to take mine off four or five times here in getting into the two LCG's and back into the constant-wear garment and things like that. But I've noticed that the yellow signal conditioner connector does not seem to go all the way in any more. I'll look at it and see if I can do anything with it, but it may be that.
Roger, Rusty. Understand. And would you switch the up-telemetry data switch to DATA now, please?
Roger. Up-telemetry back to DATA.
Al, Dave went through all his BIOMED harness last night. He unscrewed it and screwed it back in, pushed down on all the sensors, checked the connections, and everything looked all right. Is there anything else you wanted done?
Let us think about it for a little, Jim, and we'll give you a call back. We weren't reading anything on him last night.
Okay.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Carnarvon. Standing by.
Good morning, Smokey. How are you?
Oh, good morning, fearless leader. I'm just fine.
Oh, no. This is fearless number 3.
Oh, okay. Hey there, Rusty. Sound awful chipper.
Yes. It's middle of breakfast time here. It's tasting good.
Hey, Smokey. How about asking Sir John how my BIOMED service went out?
Okay. Stand by one, Rusty.
It's still not coming through at all, Rusty. We're not getting any BIOMED's from anybody.
But stand by on any troubleshooting you have up there. Let us work our site out here. We might have a ground problem.
Okay.
Hey, Rusty. Houston here. I realize you are at breakfast there, but if - Could you move a couple of switches for us? We are still trying to troubleshoot this command system.
Sure can. Go ahead.
Okay. We'd like to have the up-telemetry command switch to Reset, then Off, and then Normal.
Okay. Up-telemetry command going to Reset. 3, 2, 1.
MARK.
Okay. And back to Off, and now back to Normal.
Okay. We are in Normal.
Okay. Understand. Thank you. And we might have a couple more here.
And, Apollo 9, we are going to lose you at Carnarvon here in a few seconds. Bring up your S-band volume and we'll see you over Honeysuckle in about a minute.
Okay. We're with you.
Apollo 9, Houston through Honeysuckle. How do you read?
Apollo 9, Houston through Honeysuckle. How do you read?
Oh, you're coming in five-square there, Smokey.
Okay, Rusty. Looks like we have got our command system back again, and we are going to be transmitting an abort command, so you should see the light here. And it'll be on for about a minute.
Okay. What should we see?
You should see the abort light.
Okay. Stand by.
Okay. We got our eye on it.
Okay.
MARK.
You should have the light.
MARK.
We don't.
Okay. We'll try again.
How now?
Still the same. I wonder if we may have to get some circuit breakers or something closed for you?
That's a negative, Rusty. We should be getting in.
Okay. We don't need the EDS power On?
Stand by.
Did you get it then. Rusty?
That's a negative.
Okay, Apollo 9. We're still troubleshooting on that one. You all made all the headlines on that rendezvous; it was mighty pretty. I see here that they are cooking you a 350-pound cake aboard the Guadalcanal that you'll have to eat when you get down there.
Listen; we're ready, man - We're ready. With the amount of time we've had to eat in the last few days, we are going to eat it.
Roger.
Hey, Stu. I don't know if you guys got any message yesterday because we were scrambled and getting ready for the APS burn, but I would like to thank you all for the tremendous job that you did. All that practice that we did in those simulations really paid off, and I think that, as I said yesterday, we've got the world's greatest set of controllers.
Thank you, Jim. That makes us all feel real good, and the whole control center here appreciates that.
Yes. And that's what it goes for. It goes for all those guys down there in the pit, up there in the balcony, even the guys in the viewing room and running the computers and all those kind of things. I want to include them all.
Roger.
That goes for all of us, too, Smokey. We all agree.
Roger. I tell you, you all really put on a show for us. That was fantastic.
Hey, I don't know if you had a chance to plot it out, but I don't think we got more than pencil-width off the nominal line the whole time we were on.
No - it - You were right on all the way around, and it was phenomenal the way all three solutions were coming together. It was beautiful.
Wasn't that something.
Might give you the impression that it might work.
Yes. (Laughter) It sure does.
Hey. And, Apollo 9 - Jim, when you and - Just stand by.
And when Dave plugs in the BIOMED, why we'd appreciate a call, just so we'll be sure we're getting the data. We're about 30 seconds LOS off Honeysuckle here. We'll see you over Mercury about on the hour.
And, Apollo 9, if you can still read me, we would like to have you look in your logs, and we're going to be asking you for the time of your last two fuel cell purges.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Mercury. We will have you for about 5 minutes. And we're looking at the fuel cell here, Apollo 9. We would like, if possible, to get the time of the last two fuel cell purges, if you could give us that some time.
Stand by.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Good morning, Dave. Go ahead.
Roger. How are you?
Real fine.
We purged yesterday at approximately 8 hours when we started the day. And then last night we purged at about - just about what it says on the flight plan, at 102 - probably 102 50. And we did all three fuel cells' O2 for 2 minutes.
Roger. Copy. Thank you very much. That will help us out here.
Okay. And I wasn't on the horn there on your last pass, but I would also like to express my appreciation to all you guys for doing an outstanding job. I tell you, it's sure nice when you are driving this thing around alone to know you guys are on the horn watching.
Thank you, Dave. We all appreciate that. And just to prove that I can follow instructions here, I've got a ball score. The Astros lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers 8 to 1 in the spring exhibition opener at Cocoa Beach.
Hey, we're holding true to form.
Roger.
Hey, is the University of Houston still playing basketball?
Roger. Chris wanted to pass on to you that Virginia Tech beat them in their last game.
Oh, you're kidding. I don't believe it.
If that's true, I'm going to have to go have a talk with a couple of people.
(Laughter) Roger.
Hey, since we didn't get to launch on the right day, is Chris there?
That is affirmative.
Okay. We've got a message for him.
Okay, He is on the loop.
Okay. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday dear Christopher, happy birthday to you. (Sung to the tune of "Happy Birthday.")
That was magnificent, there. The only thing - You may even overshadow the rendezvous with performances like that.
Listen, we have two more choruses of that. Is Deke there?
That's negative.
Okay. When he comes in, let 'us know. I want to give him one, too. And, also, When Charlotte shows up, if she ever does.
All right. Fine. We will let you know.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. We will be coming off the Mercury in about 30 seconds. We will see you over Redstone about 14.
Roger.
And, Dave, when you plug in your BIOMED, we would like a call, just to make sure our system is working.
Okay. I'll do it right now.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston. Are you getting my respiration now? This is Jim.
That's affirmative, Jim. The last word I have here, you were coming through.
Okay. I haven't done anything to it as far as the BIOMED sensors themselves. All I've done is plug and unplug the COMM lead a few times when I changed configuration.
Okay, Jim. I was in error. We are getting your EKG; we are not getting your respiration.
Apollo 9, Houston through the Redstone. Standing by.
How about a map update?
Roger, Apollo 9. In work.
Today, we are going to have time to look out, and man, I'm going to look out.
Okay. And to the question back on the fuel cells: we've looked at our performance plot versus the time of the purges and so forth, and we saw no change in the performance - no drop - and we are recommending a purge on all three fuel cells.
Okay. Very good, We'll purge all three.
And we're saying that the load sharing went down because of the high temperature on the condenser exhaust there and not the purge.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, I have your map update.
Roger. Go ahead.
Okay. REV 75 is GET 119 10 01, right ascension 1642, longitude 143 27 west.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. We got you through Guaymas, now. Did you get your map update through the Redstone, Jim?
Roger. It was REV 75, GET 119 10 01, 1642 right ascension, 143 27 west.
That is affirmative.
Roger. Thank you.
Roger.
And, Houston. You getting any BIOMED on the CMP now?
Dave, we're getting the respiration, no EKG. On Jim, we're getting EKG and no respiration, and Rusty's coming through, on both of them. The only thing that we could suggest was if whenever you have the time, try the spare sensors there. Take and - Dave, replace his sternal lead to the blue ones; and Jim, replace his yellow leads from the spare some time when you get around to it.
Okay. We'll try and do that.
Okay.
We'll let Dave breathe, and we'll let my heart beat.
All right. (Laughter) very good.
And, Apollo 9, this is Houston. We would like to have you go P00 in Accept. We'll be uplinking to you through MILA here in about a minute and half or so.
Okay. We'll P00 and Accept.
Roger.
And you should just about be on landfall coming across now.
Roger. We just passed over it.. We're - Stand by. We'll find out.
Apollo 9, Houston. I have SPS-6 PAD when you are ready to copy.
Roger. Stand by one.
Standing by.
Okay, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. Reading SPS-6: 121 48 5760, minus 00369 all zips, minus 00 204 00422 00273 0016 27010, minus 089, minus 113 12 35440 23600, and I'm going to have to give you a time on your NAV check here since TIG is so far ahead. The time of this NAV check: 120 30 00, minus 1918, plus 16492 1203. End of update.
Okay. Six readback: 121 48 5760, minus 00369 all zips, minus 00204 00422 00273 0016 27010, minus 089, minus 113 12 35440 23600. The time of the NAV check: 120 30 00, minus 1918, plus 16492 1203.
Roger. Apollo 9, your readback is correct.
And, Apollo 9, the computer is yours. We have uplinked the state vector and a target load.
Roger. State vector and target load.
Apollo 9, Houston. We're about 30 seconds from LOS Canary. We'll see you over Tananarive at around 59. You have a GO for 93 dash 1.
Roger. GO for 93 dash 1.
Apollo 9, Houston. We should have you through Tananarive for about another 5 minutes.
Okay, Houston. Apollo 9 reads.
Boy, I'm reading you loud and clear.
Houston, this is Apollo 9.
Go, Apollo 9. This is Houston.
Houston, we are having a little optics problem again. It seems that the shaft is hanging up, and now it's hanging up around at about 100 - It will come closer to about 230 degrees. We are still going through a little troubleshooting here, trying to figure out how to get it out. Yesterday it worked just fine all day long, and I'm not sure whether it's - We're trying to fix it. We had one little early in the morning, and then it seemed to work fine the rest of the day, and I'm not sure whether it's an early morning problem or just exactly what.
Roger. Apollo 9, Houston. We copy that. We are not getting any data here. Maybe over Carnarvon we can have some words on it, and we'll go to work on it.
You might start thinking about some changes in the flight plan here; we may not be able to get this one working here.
Roger. Understand.
So we won't be able to SPS-6 on time.
Roger. Copy.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Go. Apollo 9, Houston.
Okay. I've got it running again by breaking the shaft loose - not breaking it, but loosening the mechanical drive on the shaft, and driving it with the F-2 mechanically across the sticky part and then, with power off, turning the optics power back on and turning it through and turning it back to zero. So I think anyway, temporarily at least, we're out of the problem.
Roger, Apollo 9. Understand. Sounds like you're doing some good troubleshooting there, I'm about to lose Tananarive. Carnarvon at 15.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. If I still have you, one other thing we'd like to have is, from now on out, we'd like the time of each fuel cell purge whenever you do the pages.
Apollo 9, Houston through Carnarvon. Standing by. Have you about 5 minutes.
Okay.
As you can see, we're working on 52 now. We had the optics hang up a couple more times here.
Understand.
Go.
Apollo 9, Houston. On the fuel cell purges, we would like to know the time of the purges from now on and also we would like to have your opinion of how today's purge went, what effect it had, and how did it compare with yesterday?
Okay, Houston. We purged 2 minutes just after you gave us the word that you thought the purge was a good thing to do. I checked them a few minutes ago and the fuel cells all looked very well balanced. I'm checking them right now, and they are very well balanced. Stand by one; let me look at the fuel cell performances.
Okay. The TCE is up a little bit again on fuel cell 2. It's not off the top yet, but it is higher than fuel cell 1 and 3 and it's drawing about the same load.
Roger, Apollo 9. Understand.
And we thank you for that info.
Roger.
And just for your info, it will be sunrise in about 19 minutes.
Okay. Thank you.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. We'll picking up Honeysuckle in about 2 minutes; put your S-band volume up, please.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. I copy your DSKY.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Go, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, this is Houston. I'm reading you loud and clear.
Okay. Did 'you get the gyro torqueing?
That is affirmative, Dave. I copied plus 119, minus 1277, plus 503. We had a data dropout; I'm not sure I got the time.
Okay. Those are the right numbers at 120 23 00.
LOS in about 20 seconds. Thank you for the time.
Roger. Thank you.
Okay, Dave. When you get the chance with it fresh in your mind, we would like to have you run through the trouble that you are having. It appears to us that it's sticking in more than one place.
Yes; that's right. Let me run back through it, the history of the thing. I guess I told you the other day, the T pack is hung up in 64 point, and the tenths roller goes all the way around. It rolls all the time, and I can't the move the T pack on the manual readout out of 64 manually or electrically. And it seems to hang up almost on multiples of 64, plus and minus 64, and around the 180 side, also. And when it hangs up, you can't move the shaft in any mode coupling speed at all. So what I've been doing is turning the optics off and breaking out the T pack with the manual dial - the manual crank there to where it looks like it's loose, at least a tenth slower and then turn the optics back on and go into zero. And that will zero it up, and then it seems to work for a little while until I get to that plus or minus 64 area, and then it all seems to hang up and nothing will bring it out, not even the Auto drive, today.
Okay, Dave. That's a real good rundown. We appreciate that and I'm going to lose you here at Honeysuckle probably in about a minute, and Huntsville at 30.
Roger. Understand.
And we sure appreciate those comments.
Okay. I'd appreciate those smart optics guys coming up with an answer.
Roger. We will give it a bloody go.
Maybe we need to oil it.
Dave, is it just the telescope? Have you noticed any trouble with the sextant?
It's - Well, to tell you the truth, I think the sextant hangs up, too. I could't be certain because I only notice it in the telescope and I haven't been able to get a star into the sextant with stuck telescope to look through the sextant, but I'll check it next time.
Okay; thank you. That's a pretty pertinent question. We would like to have the info.
Okay. It's not stuck now, so I think I will stick to it to find out.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, Houston through Huntsville. We'd like to have PCM bit rate LOW. We've got our command troubles, also.
Okay. We're LOW.
Okay. Understand. We'll see you over Hawaii at 43.
Roger. While you are waiting I'm trying the sextant and it seems to work fine in all modes - hand feed, Manual, Auto, Zero, and in any combination thereof, only the telescope gets hung up.
Roger. Understand. Copy, Dave; thank you very much.
Roger.
And, Apollo 9, Houston through Hawaii. Standing by.
Go ahead, Houston. You're a little broken again.
Roger. You're coming in okay, Apollo 9. We're on a low elevation here and we'll have continuous coverage on across the States, now.
Oh, very good.
Houston, Apollo 9. By the way, we did get a good alignment for the burn.
Roger. Copy. Understand.
Apollo 9, Houston. We'd like to have H2 tank 2 fan Off, please.
Roger, H2 tank 2 fan Off.
Thank you.
Houston, are you still there?
Roger, Apollo 9. We're still here. We got good solid lock on you now. Go ahead.
We have really been having some peculiar spacecraft rates. You know, when we go to bed at night, we try to damp the rates down to near zero so we don't have a lot - Running the clock will spin us up during the night. And every morning we get up and the rates are down around a tenth of a degree per second or something like that. Here in the last hour or so we've been trying to do this alignment and the rates keep building up. And I just - When Dave finished I let them build up and they went up to about two tenths of a degree in second in pitch, and now that we're going along here without any jet firings, they've gradually dropped back down to they're almost zero. It looks like we're trying to stabilize the spacecraft at a certain fixed position which right now happens to be command module down towards the Earth.
Roger, Apollo 9. Copy. That's very interesting, thank you. We'll ponder that a while.
Okay.
Could you explain to me when I get down on the ground just exactly how you ponder?
Yes, sir; I'll do that.
It sounds like so much fun I don't want to miss it.
Yes. copy that. Sounds like y'all are having a ball up there. Wish I could swap.
Yes, I wish you could too. You work so hard I'd like to see you up here right now.
Thank you.
Apollo 9, Houston. You are coming up over Baja California now.
Oh, yes; there it is down there.
Houston, this is Apollo 9.
Go ahead. Apollo 9, Houston.
Coming across here, looks like we're going to have an awful lot of cloud cover over the States. Where do you want to go to SO65? That was supposed to be across the southwest U.S., wasn't it?
Stand by, Apollo 9.
Okay.
Roger, Apollo 9. We'll give you a Mark on when to start, and we are looking at this.
Okay.
Okay. We're going across Atlanta, Georgia, right now, and we can zee Dobbins Air Force Base and the whole city.
Sounds great.
Okay. We got a couple of pictures for the folks.
Real good.
Apollo 9, Houston. Dave, that switch you made on the BIOMED harness is working real well. We're getting good data.
Okay, but this is Jim. I'm on Dave's lead now. He's not plugged in yet. Did you get mine? You get my respiration count?
Houston, Apollo 9.
Roger, Apollo 9. Copy, and we are getting it.
Okay. Ask those doctors if they can tell when we switch COMM leads.
Okay.
'Cause if they can't they are sure going to have some screwy data.
Just as a matter of interest, Dave is working on his right now, too. So as soon as he gets plugged back in, you want to call us and let us know whether his are fixed?
Okay, Jim. We sure will.
He's going to be on the left hoses for a while.
Roger. Houston understands.
Apollo 9, this is Houston. You are GO for SPS-6. I'd like to toss in a reminder about the pitch 1, yaw 1 circuit breakers are OUT.
Okay; fine. Thank you. Why did you want those circuit breakers OUT this morning?
Roger. It was working on the Batt A problem.
Okay. You don't want them on any longer, then, do you?
We'd like to have them IN for the burn, and then pull them out after the burn again.
Okay.
You have to keep reminding us about them, then.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. I'm going to lose you in about a minute here off of Canaries. If you could, we'd like to have an estimate of when you closed the flight and postlanding battery bus A circuit breaker, and - This is just for our power consumption.
Houston. I don't think we have any idea when that thing got closed. It must have got closed earlier at night.
Okay, Apollo 9. Understand.
We'll see you over Tananarive around 33.
Roger.
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive. How do you read?
Stand by, Houston.
Okay. When we pick you up over Carnarvon you are going to be rocking right on the burn time. We are afraid we won't get the command in. We'd like to have you go PCM bit rate HIGH at 43. That will be approximately 5 minutes prior to the burn.
Okay. PCM bit rate HIGH at 43.
Roger. That's correct. Thank you.
Are you through with your troubleshooting on the batteries? We'd like to get the circuit breakers set for the SPS.
Roger. Go ahead and put in the circuit breakers.
Okay. Thank you.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. We're coming, off Tananarive. We'll see you over Carnarvon right at your burn.
Roger.
Roger.
Ullage.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Go, Apollo 9.
Okay. We got no ullage that time, so we aborted the burn; we'll regroup here and try to figure it out.
Roger. We copy, Apollo 9. Check Charlie Delta in the DAP.
Apollo 9, Houston. We'll be looking one REV later for the burn.
Okay.
Roger, Houston. We see CD Off which means we shouldn't - But I had just reset the DAP to turn it back on about 7 or 8 minutes ago.
Okay, Apollo 9. Roger. We copy. And there - We really didn't get our data until your ignition time and your next - A rough cut at the next ignition is 123 plus 28.
Okay. 123 plus 28.
We'll be taking a look at our data and looking at the DAP here, see if we can psych this out.
Okay. We even have a cross-check on setting the DAP, and thought we had it all squared away.
Understand, Apollo 9.
Houston, 9.
Go, Apollo 9.
Roger. You want us to go back to low bit rate?
That's affirmative, Apollo 9. Thank you.
Okay.
Apollo 9, Houston. We'll see you over the Huntsville around 03.
Roger. Have you had a chance to look at anything yet?
We don't have any good word yet for you, Apollo 9. Maybe over Huntsville here we will pass some words of wisdom.
Okay.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Huntsville.
Roger.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 9, here.
Roger, Apollo 9. This is Houston through Huntsville. How do you read?
Okay. Apollo 9, this is Houston. I think you're reading me. You're not coming back too sterling. We are looking at the - at the DAP playing the data back. We will have some words on that. I'd like to post you on something; am I getting through at all?
You're coming through very weak.
Houston, this is Apollo 9. We're reading you weakly but clearly. Go ahead.
Okay. I think we've got good solid two-way lock, now. How me?
You're still weak but clear.
Okay. What we're thinking of here, this SO65 pass as scheduled is a prime one; there is a front moving in that will probably have it blanked out tomorrow. We do have aircraft out off of Los Angeles and around Tucson showing the cloud cover is good. You're only going to have about 32 minutes from the SPS-6 until the time we want the first picture taken, and if we get you all your PADS and give you warning, do you think you can get configured for that in 32 minutes after the burn?
I think your ques in 32 minutes after is that the question?
That is the question and our COMM here is pretty bad. We'll have Hawaii at 14. We'll still be on here for about another 4 minutes but you're breaking up badly coming in here. But you do have my right question. Can you be prepared to take your first, pictures 32 minutes after the burn?
Roger. I believe that we can.
Okay; copy. Thank you, and we'll really go to work and have everything rocking on ready.
Okay.
Apollo 9, Houston. We have you through Hawaii.
Roger.
We are getting that SO65 checked out right now.
Okay. Real good, and a question, Dave. When you said you had cross-checked it, did it mean that after you had gone through the VERB 48, you recalled VERB 48 and checked the load?
No. As we were going through, both of us - Two of us watched us do it.
Okay. Roger, We are going to take another look at the data, but also wondering about after loading up R1, R2 proceed vice ENTER.
No; I proceeded through it to check the weight and the pitch trim, yaw trim again.
Okay. I guess what I'm saying is after you did get in the DAP load, maybe you missed an ENTER there before you proceeded on through to the weight.
Roger. I understand what you mean.
And our data - We're trying to take a look at it, but we really can't psyche anything out yet, and I was just wondering if you had recalled it to verify that it was actually in.
No. We didn't go back and recall it again.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 9, this is Houston. I know you are real busy. You're coming up on a long pass here. We'll have you for about the next 20 - 22 minutes, and I have SPS-6 PAD anytime you are ready.
Okay. stand by, please.
Roger.
Okay. Houston, 9. Go ahead with the PAD.
Roger. Reading SPS-6: 123 25 0590, minus 00388 all zips all zips 00388 00240 0014 27010, minus 089 minus 113 12 35500 23400, minus 0646, minus 01109 1269. End of update.
Roger. Copy. 123 25 0590, minus 00388 all zips all zips 00380 00240 0014 27010, minus 089, minus 113 12 35500 23400, minus 0646, minus 01109 1.
Apollo 9. Houston. I think we are in the middle of a handoff here. Let's stand by for about 10 seconds.
Roger.
Okay. I've got you now. You dropped out on a couple of those, Dave. Would you read me DELTA-V, trunnion, and the latitude and altitude?
Okay. On DELTA-V, 0620; trunnion, 23400; longitude, minus 01109; and the: altitude, 0.9.
Roger. Copy that. I am showing latitude 0646.
Roger. 06.
Okay. Very good. You have the PAD.
Thank you.
I guess we'll assume that the DAP's working all right. And we'll run through it.
That's our assumption. Let's assume that right now, Apollo 9. We are looking at it.
Okay.
Apollo 9, Houston. We'd like to have P00 in Accept. We'll give you a state vector and a target toad.
Okay. You have P00 in Accept.
Roger. Understand. We'll be shipping it up.
Apollo 9, it will be about another minute before we start, shippng to you. We are getting dump.
Apollo 9, Houston. The computer is yours. The vector compare looks real good.
Apollo 9, Houston. We've got about 3 minutes left in this pass. I have your SO65 update when you are ready.
Stand by one.
If we don't get it here, it will be no sweat. We will have Ascension at 51.
Okay. About 10 seconds.
Okay.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. SO65 update: 18000 32750 000 123 55 20, N slash A; the next block - I want this ORB RATE; your first area in southwest U.S., 124 00 20 06 25. We would like to have a second area, which will be Houston, 124 05 15 06 03. Also, now, with the hand-held camera, I would like to give you a time here of 124 plus 03 plus 28. We would like to have about four pictures looking north of the ground track with the hand-held camera. This is just about as far north as we've come in any of the orbits. We would just like to have some pictures up there. I would like to make a comment on this southwest U.S. pass. The weather is clear from Los Angeles to Tucson. You will be just past Tucson when you have had exposure 15. As you come into El Paso, if it looks like it's completely socked over, you can terminate, but we want to keep going up through 15.
Okay. Want a readback? Do we have time?
We've got about 30 seconds. Go ahead.
Okay. 180 327 and a half 0123 55 20 NA; ORB RATE. Southwest U.S., 124 00 20 06 25; Houston, 124 05 15 0603.
Why don't you put 15 in parentheses, there. Or write "at least 15" or something like that so you can -
Hey, Rusty, there's a film pack and a screw up above your head, that might come crashing down.
Yes, that sure would.
It looks like an empty one. Is it?
No, that's the good one.
Why does it say "empty" on it?
Oh, well, I mean, yes. If it's been used and it's not empty, it would say so.
Hey, and I can't find the scissors, Rusty, and that's bothering me.
Well, heck, we'll find them.
I know, but I don't want to find them in somebody's leg with a thing like so.
Hey, Jim, why picky with words today. You really.
Look, I said, "That's an empty one," and you said, "No, that's a good one." How many empty film packs did we carry with us on the flight, Rusty?
It's a used - it's a used one. I'm sorry. Yes, it's empty.
Good. There's a bunch of them.
The comment was, "It was an empty one, and we ought to put it away.
Okay, I'm sorry.
Hey, Rusty, would you pass me my.
Yes.
You want some?. They did say ORB rate?
Yes.
Yes. I think this is, yes. Okay?
Did you get the update on the next burn? I guess we did, didn't we?
Yes. We got it.
Yes, I'll get it. It's in here, I believe.
Okay.. Let's see what the DAP.
Yes, load the DAP. Wonder what happened to my checklist.
There was one over behind you there, and I can still see it. I don't know if that's yours or not.
your big checklist is in R-3.
R-3, okay. I think that one over there is the - one from yesterday. It's the rendezvous systems day checklist we were using to power down the spacecraft. Oh, my goodness gracious, sakes alive, where'd that come from?
What's that thing over there?
Got this all figured out, David?
I think so.
We had a card there, don't we?
We had a card, for how to load them, but -
It is 0.68 degrees per second.
Yes, but we want the ones for this altitude.
Yes, I know it. I'm just...
Yes, actually, we want one for the altitude we're going to be at after that burn.
Yes.
Which is kind of - going to be a little variable but, heck, I guess that's within the deadband, isn't it?
Maybe it's on.
the altitude. how we figured the ORB rate and the altitude.
I don't know.
You can tell our period, can't you, Dave, by putt in the same - No, put the same. Can we tell our period anymore?
The period?
Yes. Orbital period. Out of this computer, can we get that?
If we've got the apogee or perigee, we can call the time for perigee for the next one. Give me just 1 minute or so, if you can. Starting the 1 minute.
Who's going to click the remote camera now?
Oh, we'll let you click it.
Okay, I'll get set up to do that, then. I'm setting the arrow at 6 seconds, 25 exposures.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Ascension. And Rusty, I got the readback all the way through the SO65. I just wanted to make sure that you got my additional comments.
Let's ask him about our orbit rate.
Okay. The addition comments: The weather is clear from LA to Tucson, and you figure that we'll get to Tucson about the 15th exposure; and using our judgment, if beyond that it looks now like it's clobbered in, to go ahead and forget them. Understand that at 124 03 28, with a hand-held camera, you'd like pictures looking north of the orbit track. And I wonder if you could give us an orbit rate?
Okay. Stand by.
Degrees per second.
Okay. We'd like it in degrees per second.
Roger. Understand.
Houston, this is Apollo 9,
Go ahead, Apollo 9. This Houston.
Roger. These angles that you sent us, are those inertial angles or those local vertical angles? This is for SO65.
Roger. Those are your ORB RATE angles. Now, it - on your FDAI.
Roger. Do you have a corresponding set of inertial angles that we can have?
Stand by.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Go ahead, Apollo 9.
Okay. One more question on that. If you will check the checklist, CMP 3-15, there is an ORB RATE column there, and it goes 0, 90, 180, and 270 degrees. Could you give us a word on that? What those are?
Roger. Copy, Apollo, 9. Stand by.
Okay.
Apollo 9, this is Houston. You are GO for SPS-6, and we are working on your question.
Roger. GO for 6; thank you.
I know it, but we don't have the right alignment for the burn.
Apollo 9, Houston. About 30 seconds LOS Ascension. We'll see you at Tananarive about 09, if we can talk to you.
Okay. I've got a quick question. All these angles that you are going to get us are based on the REFSMMAT that we had in there for the previous burn, right?
That is affirmative, Apollo 9.
Okay.
And on your attitudes for the burn, you will be about two-tenths off. I didn't bother passing those. It's essentially 000.
Okay. Very good.
Come on; you are falling down on the job.
0.2?
Okay. Sorry about that.
VERB 37, ENTER; 30, ENTER.
Used to be a.
Houston.
Go ahead.
(Laughter) 25 and 590, alright.
You saying the alignments for - the preferred alignments for both those burns are the same?
Yes. 0038, 000. Oh, that's funny.
Rusty, here are the updated figures.
38.8.
Why don't you tell me what time to take the first picture, and I'll write the GET down?
Jim is going to take them.
I'm going to take the pictures, and he's going to take the pictures out the side window.
Okay. You tell me, and I'll write it. Okay?
Well, the GET's already logged.
That the first picture?
Yes, it's in the update.
It's in the update form.
Oh. Okay.
Okay, want to set your clock?
Jim, how many pictures did you just take?
I didn't take any - oh, I took one.
One?
Out of - out of focal and stop setting and...
Did you wind it? No, okay. That was 109.
(Laughter) You damn well see about the clock, Scott.
I don't ever do it this way, though.
Well, you ain't doing it the way you - Did you leave the picture until you get the clock set?
As a matter of fact, get me over at the right attitude so I can do a star check.
We are - we're going that way free.
I bet it's going to be Regulus.
Don't say anything - don't say anything.
(Laughter) Don't blow it.
I'm going to concentrate on this.
You know what you have over there? (Laughter) Oh, it's going up. Okay.
That'll be another burn.
Oh, you do that, and I'll go check - put the optics up again.
You want the pad?
No, I don't need it.
Hey, we still have the g-meter cover out. Hot dog!
Dave, can you drag out the orbital map behind the?
Yes.
I want to try and figure out where we're going to be...
find it?
at that time. Hey, Jim, where'd you hide that orbit map?
It's right behind the.
Boy, they would put the U.S. right at the doggone fold, wouldn't they?
Yes, that - There is a nice way that you could make one of those maps, too. And that sure isn't it.
Man, I'm telling you. It's really black out there. Did I forget to take something off? Hey, one of our lights is out down here.
What light? Really?
Yes, a floodlight.
It just went out. It was on this morning.
Now it works. Works in DIM 2 only.
Actually, DIM 1 with one light isn't bad. Hey, what am I looking at here? Can you look out the window and see what I'm looking at? It's just absolutely black in there.
It's probably the ground. Yes, must be thunderstorms down there.
Gee. I don't see a thing. I don't even see a thunderstorm.
The horizon's up near here, right now.
You got the update book there, Dave?
No, I don't. Hey, that's the spacecraft.
Oh, there's a little speck of light over there.
Gee, it can't be. Oh, maybe it is.
Jim, when you're done with the update book -
Oh, this map has got to be wrong.
Oh, I'm finally starting to see something out there
(Noise)
What in the world is that?
I don't know.
Sounds like somebody's making a telephone call.
We're getting another 25 degrees.
Okay.
DELTA-VC, Rusty?
DELTA-VC is 24.0.
Oh, here it comes.
We're almost there.
We're there. The wide deadband.
Dave, you didn't turn the C and D...
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive. Do you read?
Roger. This is Apollo 9.
Hey, Dave?
Huh?
You didn't turn quad C and D on.
I know it. I didn't need to.
Oh, okay.
I was going to Attitude Hold, here.
Alright, fine.
The wide deadband.
I'm going to go - I'm going to...
Okay.
use the - use - the DSKY, now.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Tananarive. I am not reading you; your ORB RATE is 0.067.
Roger. Copy 0.067.
Good.
Okay, Rusty, what are the gimbal angles - or the sextant and shaft angles - sextant shaft and trunnion angles?
64.6 and 11.O9, minus.
Shit, what are we reading here? 14 and 19!
Apollo 9, this is Houston. We'll see you over Carnarvon at about 22, just before your burn.
Roger.
Carnarvon 22.
How close are we...
And, Apollo 9, I'm not getting you back. You're busting up. Your ORB RATE is 0.067, and we'll have the rest of your angles for you after your burn.
Roger. I understand.
Thank you.
Dave?
Huh?
How close you are there?
5 degrees.
Dave, if you can read me, I'll pass this to you now. The checklist there on CMP 315 - Those values are to be used; those are your roll angles. In other words, in this one, where you're at 180 degree roll, you would use that column versus your ORB RATE of 0.067 to get those values to load in for the procedures.
Roger. Very good. Thank you.
That's what I sort of suspected, but I really -
Those are your outer gimbal angles, Dave. I'll cover this with you again because I may not be getting through.
Oh, you got through just fine.
Okay, are you looking through there right now, Jim?
Yes, but would you believe, it's not going around.
Oh, you mean the telescope isn't working?
No. The sextant is not working.
The sextant isn't working?
I mean the - the telescope isn't working, yes.
Here, let me borrow this thing to send a.
Okay. What thing?
The DSKY?
Yes, go ahead.
I'm sending a.
Not over Tananarive, it doesn't.
No, they don't get any data, do they?
Yes. I can't even drive it around zero now, Dave.
Yes, I know. I can't either. Do you want to do it, or you want to figure that we got a good alignment and just check last time and, if we're at 000, we'll be close enough?
Yes, we're close enough. Shoot, let's do the burn.
I'm with you. Then I'll load the DAP.
Oh, my aching back.
Well, I know how to work around it, Jim, so don't - don't sweat it.
You're going to have a little trouble working around it if you can't use the shaft at all. You start now at about 14 degrees, it looks like.
Yes, I know, but that's the way it was before.
14 degrees? It's got a multiple of 64 in there.
Oh, really?
Yes.
VERB 48. Okay. Now, now,.
Okay, B/D is on. B/D seems to be alright. Roll quad at zero is B/D On. B/D quad.
Hey, Dave, let's press on with the reading?
PRO, PRO, PRO..
Could always tap the controller. at 1/100th of a foot per second, and screw up.
What would we do if it wouldn't work?
Oh, I don't know. Maybe check with several more things. I don't know what else we could check, but you could probably think of a few more.
Okay. Ready to read?
I'm getting that Fuel Cell 2 light again. It's working its way up again.
Yes, we already have it.
Oh.
You know, I found something else that was different the other day.
What?
In the simulator that we used - The mount on the left armrest. In the simulator, in the, you could crank that all the way down. This key here is going to stop about a third of the way down.
(Laughter)
For the EVA, I put this hand controller over there so I could use my good gloves, but the way it works, it was like this. In the mockup, I could set it like this, like this one here. But here, it's set almost like that.
Yes, great. Okay, we're down to 8 minutes. We got off to something else.
Did you get your strut locked, Rusty? I guess not, huh?.
No.
Okay. Let's do a P40.
Okay.
Okay, here we go.
P47.
You got the DAP and the ullage selection TVC roll jet, huh? Okay, BMAG MODE, three, to RATE 2.
RATE 2.
SPACECRAFT CONTROL to CMC.
RATE 2 SPS thrust to align in roll.
Okay. CMC MODE to Auto.
Just a second. He's not that far yet.
Oh, okay, I'm sorry. It's got "align in roll" down here. That's why I thought you meant you were down here.
I'd like to get P40 before.
I know, but.
Okay.
We got 07:22, Rusty, so we got plenty of time.
Oh,.
That's better.
Okay. 6 minutes, I hope.
Be right up.
Okay, SPACECRAFT CONTROL, CMC; CMC MODE to Auto.
They're going to pick us up at 22, so they'll be able to get the...
No, they won't. You'll have to turn on the circuit breaker.
Okay, CMC in Auto. Go ahead.
I got the SPS HELIUM valve; BMAG MODE, three, to RATE 2.
RATE 2.
Align spacecraft in roll.
Aligned. PRO or continue. Okay, I want to continue; check panel 8.
Set up your Auto RCS, ROLL.
Okay, set.
Set the DELTA-V indicator, 24.0.
Okay, it's set.
Verify EMS FUNCTION, DELTA-V.
DELTA-V.
Manual Attitude, three, to RATE COMMAND.
RATE COMMAND.
Attitude DEADBAND, MIN; RATE, LOW.
LOW.
TRANSLATION CONTROL POWER, On.
On.
SCS TVC's, two, to RATE COMMAND.
RATE COMMAND.
DELTA-Vcg to CSM.
CSM.
TVC GIMBAL DRIVE, PITCH and YAW, to Auto.
Auto.
MAIN BUS TIES are coming On. MAIN 2, B and C. Okay, TVC SERVO POWER 1, AC 1/MAIN A.
AC 1/MAIN A.
TVC 2, AC 2/MAIN B.
2, AC 2/MAIN B.
ROTATIONAL CONTROL POWER, Normal, two, to AC.
AC.
DIRECT, two, to Off.
Two to Off.
BMAG MODE, three, to ATT 1/RATE 2.
ATT 1/RATE 2.
SPACECRAFT CONTHOL to SCS.
SCS.
RHC 2, unlocked.
Unlocked.
PITCH and YAW 1, START, On.
Okay, PITCH 1, START, On.
Verify.
YAW 1, START, On.
Verify.
Okay.
Verify trim control and set.
0.9 and 1.1.
0.9 and 1.1, okay.
Verify MTVC; THC, clockwise.
Clockwise.
Verify no MTVC.
Okay.
PITCH 2 and YAW 2, START, On.
PITCH 2, START, On, YAW 2, START, On.
Verified. Verify MTVC; confirm and set GPI TRIM.
Okay, set.
SPACECRAFT CONTROL to CMC.
CMC.
THC, NEUTRAL.
NEUTRAL.
Verify no MTVC.
No MTVC.
Proceed.
Okay.
ROTATIONAL CONTROL POWER, Normal, two, to AC/DC.
AC/DC.
DIRECT, two, to MAIN A/MAIN B.
MAIN A/MAIN B.
ENTER.
Well, alright, Jimmy, I guess we're ready.
Okay, let me ENTER.
Okay.
Ready for the?
Sure. Ohh!
(Laughter)
I looked at it all day yesterday, and it still surprises me.
get a camera out.
Yes.
Yes, it only happens that it hit on the MAG, and I put that down a little bit, so that the bottom came - out a little bit.
Does that magazine still work?
Yes,.
Apollo 9, Houston through Carnarvon. Standing by for your burn.
Roger. And I think the DAP is squared away. What does it look like down there?
We don't have data yet, Apollo 9.
Okay.
Roger. It is GO.
Okay. Thank you.
Yes, you're right.
Yes, and let's make sure we get those things put away.
Hey, that was really great!
Quite a kick, huh.
Yes, that was great. You know, you guys have been doing all those big-kick burns...
No, we really haven't...
compared to ours...
No, you know the biggest engine we have is only 10 000 pounds.
about 10 000 pounds.
What's your ascent engine?
20 to 3500 pounds.
Oh!
Houston, this is Apollo 9.
Go ahead, Apollo 9.
Got our residuals for you: plus 1.2, minus 0.4, and minus 0.3; DELTA-V counter is minus 13.1.
Roger. Copy. Plus 1.2, minus 0.4, minus 0.3, and minus 13.1.
Roger. And that pitch attitude: 354 degrees.
Roger. Copy.
That one g you earthlings have down there is quite a sensation.
Roger. And Dave thanks you from the bottom of his computer for that pitch angle.
Roger.
Okay. Apollo 9, Houston. We're going to have you here for about another two and one-half minutes at Carnarvon. I believe you got your ORB RATE, 0.067, over Tananarive. And that page 3 dash 15, what that is telling you is your outer gimbal - That's your roll angle. We are going to have you with a roll of about 180, so you will use that column versus your ORB RATE to get your parameters to load in the procedure.
Okay. Fine, then. I copied your whole transmission over Tananarive and I think we've got it in hand. Thank you.
Roger. And I'll have you some inertial angles here at the start of your ORB RATE shortly.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 9, Houston with your inertial angles.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. Roll, 0; pitch, 332.4; yaw, 359.5; and the time of this will be 55 plus 20.
Roger. Understand. Roll, O; pitch, 332.4; yaw, 359.5; and the time is 55 plus 20.
Roger.
And we are going to lose you here at Carnarvon. We'll probably see - see you at Hawaii around 48. We'll have a low Pass on Guam this time.
Okay. Fine.
Roger.
That's like about half of the P38. Did that knock you on your can? (Laughter)
Hey, that was really great!
Okay - Well - Hey, just as a matter of interest. P30 said that we were going to get 120.4 perigee and we actually got, at least out of this thing here - It says 120.6. P30 said we were going to get 110.7 and we got 111.9. Not bad, huh?
Okay, let's hun - hunch along on that SO 65. That's about right in here.
Gee, I'd like to come rescue you now.
(Laughter) You fink!
Listen, all the time I knew you wanted to come rescue me.
Huh?
All the time I knew you wanted to come and rescue me.
That's alright. give him a flyby.
Sorry to disappoint you there.
Well, that's alright. I didn't want to.
My nerves couldn't stand it; I'm getting too old for that kind of stuff.
I could tell you were fretting when your light went out.
Yes, by then everything was going off pretty smoothly.
Yes, it sure Was.
As a matter of fact, when - all the TPI solutions converged, I figured, well, at least we're going to get a chance to see you again, even if I lost the radar right then, and lost all the COMM, (laughter); we had a - we had a solution we could burn on something.
Even if you can't dock.
The three of them converging like that,.
Okay, David -'okay, let's you and I talk this thing over here, while Rusty sets up the camera.
Okay, I'm going to line this thing up...
Did you - did you get those new attitudes?
Yes, I've got them.
Okay.
What time is this supposed to start?
We're supposed to be there at 123:55:20.
Right,.
That's when we want to go into ORBIT RATE.
Right.
Let me get this setup. 55:20 and we're 22 minutes.
goes 10 minutes.
Yes.
Try to get it - Why don't you start on an even 20? (Laughter) And then Just go from there?
55:20.
My gosh!
Hey, as a matter of fact, let's get a new magazine. We're already up to 110 photos, aren't we?
Yes.
Where - where are they stowed?
There are a couple right down over here underneath your seat. I'm not sure whether they are used or not; as soon as we finish this burn, I want to go down and inventory all the film.
We've only used two 70's.
Okay.
This is the second one, so let me just put it away here. In fact, why don't I mark "used" on it, huh?
Okay.
You got any better ideas? How about writing on here "used"? Huh?
Okay. You might say "put away" or something like that at 123:34. We've got to find out how many pictures are on those...
Hey, what was our - We - Who wrote down what the quads were this morning? A/B? - Or did you write them down?
Yes, he said, "Use A/B.
Post-return to Normal, two-jet authority.
Yes, I got that. How about the pad?
See what it says up on the top.
Use B/D ullage, B/D roll, and SCS systems. B and D, Auto.
Well, that maybe the updated command module control.
Okay. Yes, I think with - That's - Let's see, A is 55, and B is really high; it's...
How about B, though...
different from B and A.
And C is - C is 60; D -
I think it was A and...
Oh, hey, do we have a - You have got the procedures book, Dave?
I have it.
Hey, Jim, how about letting me look at it, and see if there's anything - any one of those magazines in particular that's scheduled for - ground photographs?
Well, it doesn't make any difference anymore, because from now on that's all we're going to take are ground photographs, so -
I don't want that up there. Put it back over here.
Hey, get your; I want to check out the SO 65, using that book.
Okay.
I think anyway - Well, from now on, all...
Yes, they are.
we're going to take are ground pictures.
Whoop!
That's okay.
I hope.
Okay, we've worked down to the point where we're going to remove the dark slides from all the magazines.
What?
Can you turn the intercom on?
He can't listen.
Yes, do you have trouble walking and chewing gum, too?
Your hand controller's still hot, Dave.
Apollo 9, Houston through GUAM. Do you read?
Roger, Houston. Reading you five-by.
Okay. I'm reading you a little weak. But Dave, I don't know if I've confused you on this page 315 or not but that top column is your outer gimbal angle.
Yes, you did.
Use the value for your outer gimbal angle when you are at the proper pitch for this photography.
Okay. I was just going to ask you about that. You gave him some roll of zero degrees so that's our attitude.
Actuate system one cycle, and verify for observation. Okay.
Roger. That zero degree inertial looks - looks good, and so that top column is your outer gimbal angle.
Okay; very good. Thank you.
Roger.
Apollo 9, Houston. If you read me, the roll on our SO65 PAD where we gave you 180 should be zero.
Oh, okay. The roll on the SO65 PAD should be zero. Understand.
Roger.
S'all right!
S'all right!
Okay, got to get down there where I can see all those mothers move.
Well, let's get to the attitude, early, just so we can, maybe roll 180, in case it's all dicked up.
I can see three of them moving.
Dark slides move with all at one cycle.
Okay, here we go. 3, 2, 1 -
MARK.
Three of them moved.
Four of them moved. Man, that was pretty. See it?
That was very breathtaking (laughter).
Perfect!
Hey, they don't say what to do with the paddles, but all the paddles are there, and locked. I think they're all out there; those are all alright - they're all on, and they're locked. They didn't have any covers on them, so we don't have to worry about them.
You got a picture of the horizon in four colors.
(Laughter) Did I?
Yes.
And the window looks like it's going to get it just as clear as it's ever going to get.
Oops, Davey, we have a problem: we have to disable jet A-3.
Say again?
We're going to have to disable jet A-3.
Yes, you're right. Here we go again. Shoot.
I wonder why? C is our low tank, too.
It fires out here.
Shoot! And that's going to interfere with anything! In the daytime, looking at the ground?
Oh, Christ.
Let's disable - Let's use B - hell, the only other one we can use is C; B and C.
We got to use A or B -.
Yes, that's what I say: use B and C.
B is in low, here.
Yes.
Houston, Apollo 9.
We've lost him.
Yes, it's a little low on that quad; boy, I - Let's see off our redline.
you know, the chance that you're going to have to be taking pictures just at the moment that's firing a jet is nil.
It's nothing.
And even if it did fire accidentally...
Yes, I think you're right.
That did it! Have you got the update book?
No, that's the log.
Where's the update book? Here it is, I have it. I believe you're right. We're now in MAG C.
My goodness, the hybrid DAP redline for quad C is 49 percent. Oh, no, hybrid DAP's aren't quite that high. What's PU mean?
Propellant used, utilized, usable.
What's that expression, Jim?
Are we all ready for this now?
No.
Yes. Yes, we are?
Shoot, there's not that much difference between C and A. What have we got loaded in there?
I've got A and B loaded in there. We'll have to reload it before.
Why don't you leave A in there? It says DAP redline for A is 7 percent more than it is for C. Shoot, B has the highest redline and the lowest fuel.
Yes, let's don't use it...
Yes, that's a good idea.
I don't think it's worth it.
You something, Rusty?
Okay, at GET 5 minutes prior to the first site, disable jet A-3, orient the spacecraft for update, set up orbit rate - ATT Hold.
Set up ORB RATE. Somebody's been I can do that.
I want to have somebody.
Oh, hey, I want to resume BAT A charge. There's nothing like a real-time flight plan, I always say.
Don't you wish a real-time flight plan in this thing never bat an eyelash, because you didn't have time (laughter). over there and did that after the DPS burn, starting an hour and some late, so that sucker was still pretty stiff. But he missed a couple.
A couple of.
Okay, we'll be at the attitude in about l0 minutes -
Okay.
And then we have -
I'm going to scoot over here and use your clock, if you don't mind.
That's right. Why don't you check it to be sure I get it right?
What's it counting down to?
5:20. It should be 55:20.
Okay, that's what it's counting down to.
And we take the pictures 5 minutes after that. Is that right?
Well, let's look at our checklist. Yes, we take pictures 5 minutes after that. You start at 5 and stop at 7:30, or when the clouds hit you.
Okay, the north is coming into view.
I tried to set up ORB RATE and get a few - Get there and hold it and we'll get a GDC align, and I'll try and setup ORB RATE. doesn't work GDC GDC.
We still have ORB RATE in there, don't we?
Yes, but.
Looking through here, it looks pretty good.
Yes, but we'd hate to miss the pictures if the DAP doesn't work right.
Yes.
Listen, we come back with SO 65 pictures, and we're going to be great.
That's really a big deal, isn't it?
Okay, we're there and we're holding.
Okay.
On the wide deadband and I'll tighten it up.
Zero, I think.
Okay, ORB RATE.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Hawaii. Standing by.
Roger. We're getting set up.
Very good.
When we come over, I want you to smile now, Stu.
Okay. And we've sent somebody outside, said it was clear out here.
Is it clear?
Yes it is, here.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We would just like to remind you; when you get into the checklist on SO65, and you disable jet A3, to reenable quad C in the DAP.
Houston, we have elected to go on and use A and - A and B here.
Roger. Understand, Apollo 9.
We - When you get the redlines, C is by far the lowest, and we didn't figure we were going to be firing that many pulses as we went along here. The chance of us firing a pulse at the time we took a picture is rather remote.
Roger, Apollo 9.
Houston, this is Apollo 9.
Go, Apollo 9.
Listen, this technique isn't working; we're driving the wrong way or something up here, and we're not going to be vertical - it doesn't look like. You want us to just take over and try to fly it around manually or skip it?
Roger. We copy, Apollo 9.
Better hurry up; we gotta start taking pictures right now.
Roger. We'd like you to take over and do it manually.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 9,
Go, Apollo 9.
Hey, Houston, we still have the three to take over Houston, haven't we?
I didn't copy that; you busted out, Apollo 9.
Roger. We have the three pictures to take over Houston. We had better get those procedures squared away.
Roger.
Okay. You ought to be coming over about now, Apollo 9, snapping away.
Yes. It's quite a sight.
Clear as a bell down there.
Okay. We won't move.
Don't move. Smile.
And did you get a good picture of the oil slick off the coast?
Houston, Apollo 9.
Go, Apollo 9.
This is the uncertain angle I took seven pictures instead of three.
Roger. Copy. You took seven instead of three.
And, Jim, you're breaking up and Dave is coming through loud and clear.
Did you take into account the fact that.
Houston?
Apollo 9, this is Houston. You're breaking up quite badly. I can not read you.
Roger. Thank you.
Houston? You still with us?
Roger. We show you - We still should have good lock on you; however, you are breaking up quite badly, Apollo 9.
Okay. How about now? You read us now?
That's loud and clear.
Okay. I guess we have some question about the platform alignment, too, since we have aligned retrograde. The uprate technique with the DAP works real well; it just looked like we were going the wrong way.
Roger. Copy. And GNC here has a lot of good words to say about that. Sounds like you are absolutely right.
Okay. Then maybe we can get them squared away for next time.
Roger. It looks like we went V cross R instead of R cross V.
Roger. At least fundamental.
It's not all at first, either.
Roger.
Anyway, next time we try it, how about when you give us the update, give us the PAD with the inertial gimbal angles on it, and add to it the ORB RATE, and we can probably go from there and set this thing up pretty good.
Roger. We'll do that. We'll have inertial angles and ORB RATE on the next PAD.
Okay; thank you. You might also have the orbit rate angle, too, because we could monitor that on the ORB RATE ball.
Roger. Understand.
Houston. How do you read me now?
You're loud and clear, Jim.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. Show you coming across the Caribbean. We'll have you for about another 8 minutes.
Okay.
Houston, this is Apollo 9.
Go, Apollo 9.
Okay. According to this flight plan update you gave us this morning, you were going to give us a time for a nominal P52 alignment. Do you have that data for us yet?
Roger. It's in work. We'll have it here before we lose Antigua.
Okay. When are you going to send us the PAD for landmark tracking?
Say again, Apollo 9.
When are you going to send us the PAD for landmark tracking?
Roger.
Stand by. We'll try to have that over Ascension, Apollo 9.
Okay, Apollo 9. I have your time for the nominal alignment.
okay. Go ahead.
Roger. 125 plus 03 plus 00.
Roger. 125 plus 03 plus 00.
That's affirmative.
Apollo 9, this is Houston. We would like to have voice check here to check our S-band. That's what was breaking up on the pass over the last site.
Okay. Voice check: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Apollo 9.
Oh, that's beautiful! Loud and clear.
Okay.
Houston, I might have a comment on this SO65. It seems to have worked very well. It's easy to put together, and it seems to take pretty good pictures. I don't know about the quality, but it's easy to operate.
Okay. Copy. How did it look from Tucson to El Paso, Jim? Did you take those pictures?
Roger. We took the pictures, but I couldn't tell exactly what the cloud cover was. Let me let Dave answer you.
It was a scattered deck, you know, like probably 2000 feet or so. Other than that it was pretty good, but soon as we got to within about a couple or 3 minutes of Houston, it broke out in the open.
Okay. Real good. That was our report according to aircraft from Los Angeles. Tucson was supposed to be clear, and I think with the scattered deck it should still be good with the word I had. I'm glad you took them.
Better to take them today, than to not take them tomorrow.
That's right. And we're going to lose you in about 20 seconds here. We'll see you at Ascension at 26.
Okay.
Jim, how about you running through the program...
Go to it, yes. You - Why don't you not bother answering anybody, and figure out how to landmark track? Maybe I ought to figure out how to help you.
I - I - I can show you - I can show you how to -
Rusty, you answer the phone.
I will.
I was looking to see where you are. What's in the procedures book?
The only trouble with SO 65 is the 35-pound.
Yes.
What the hell happened to my UCDA? Gee, it floats all over.
There was a UCD down here that I thought was yours.
A UCDA that was right there - Yes, that's where I hung it.
Oh. You're talking about the other one.
Oh, I see it. It's up at the head chow chest.
Dave, what page is that in the checklist? - When we do P22? Where's P22 in the checklist?
Well, I have a checklist like yours. I'm supposed to have everything you have in yours. Maybe it's in G&N; let me look in the front.
Okay? Yes. I've got it.
Hey, how in the hell are you going to do landmark tracking if you can't operate the shaft? Oh, we use the sextant though, don't we? No, we don't; we use the telescope.
I have the optics in zero and CMC, I'm quite sure. Yes, I am. I'm well trained. I don't really like to do that, but I.
You don't like to do what?
Put it in zero and CMC. Hey, as a matter of fact, you ought to go down there and see if you could even drive the optics. There's no sense in all this fuel away -
I could do it alright this morning.
Well, I couldn't drive it at all at 14 degrees.
Okay, well, why don't you - Are you all through with that stuff?
Yes.
command module then.
Okay.
the program.
Let's swap COMM hoses again, please. We'll have to unswap them.
Yes, I think so. Sure looks like it. What spot? Oh, I didn't notice. I didn't hear you. I was too busy rubbernecking. You don't have to inventory the Hasselblad, because I can tell you exactly what we've got there.
We've used magazines A and B, and I'm 30 pictures into C. And all the rest are left, and I'll tell you how many that is in a minute - if I can find the damn thing. Where's the procedure book?
You got the procedures book, Dave? Can I see it for just a second? Haiti - that's the place I was trying to think of. Can I use this procedures book for just a second, Dave?
Okay, we've got D and E, so that's 240, I guess - plus 30 left in here - I mean plus 90 left in there, so that's 330. Oh, hey, look at this. Yes. A through E, 150, so we've got some left on A and B, too.
Well, B we stopped at about 110, and A we stopped about - somewhere around 100, 90 or so. We'll just write it down in pencil, and - and we'll just write it in this and scratch it out when we finish it up. Dave, you've got to do your alignment first, don't you?
Hey, we brought back some LM film, too. Where did - where did we stow that? Okay, we've got - a film pack there, too, and this doesn't say how many's in that, but it's about - what? 60?
It's working, Jim. I'm going to go right across in front of you here, Dave.
Okay.
Make a film survey. Hello, Davey.
Yes, it's working.
It is working now?
Yes. They give you a time for a nominal alignment?
Yes, 125:03:00.
I'm supposed to do it now?
You're supposed to do a nominal alignment when we get into dark for that time.
120 - I'm sorry.
That's okay. 125:03:00.
Okay, 03 -
Am I in your way, Dave?
No. And all zips.
And I assume, Rusty, that that's what that time - that's next to nominal P52 means.
Yes. Right.
Okay, Jim, a - Roll, pitch, and yaw, and that looks - Roll? 11, pitch -Yes, that'll be fine.
Apollo 9, Houston trough Ascension.
Roger, Houston. Apollo 9, here.
Roger. Good evening.
Hi. How are you!
Good shape; good shape. About ready for our evening fireside chats again, looks like.
Yes. When you said good evening, I was absolutely amazed. I looked at my watch; it says 3:30 down at the Cape.
That's right.
How are you there, Mr. Ron?
Good shape; good shape.
Good.
We're working on our landmark tracking PAD. We should have that before we finish up here, I hope.
Okay. I want you people to realize that we are having this trouble with the shaft on the telescope, and we may not be too successful with this thing.
Roger. We understand that.
Alrighty.
Alright, Jim, I guess I don't have any stars.
You don't, huh?
No.
I've got a program alarm.
I'll be darned. Well, you ought to have some sta. Let me do a little...
Do a little roll...
do a little check, here.
Wait, let me see which way to go.
I want to go - Roll left.
Yes.
Okay, I'll do a little trick. Yes. Okay, and then we just put the B roll on, won't we?
I said I think.
And SCS is...
MINIMUM IMPULSE. Check the. Gee, it really looks like you ought to be able to see stars.
Well,.
I'm all dicked up. Well, the Earth is that way that's the sky out this way. I'll be a son of a gun. Okay.
Is it too bright up here, Dave? You want me to get those other lights?
Apollo 9, Houston. Have your landmark update.
Roger; just a minute.
Let me get set.
Give me the book, and I'll get it for you.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Roger, Houston. Go ahead.
Okey. You're real weak there. I'll go ahead and read. Your landmark ID 011: your GET, 125 32 1600; and you'll be 60 miles north of track.
We have about 30 seconds to LOS; probably Carnarvon at 57.
Roger. Say again the roll, pitch, yaw, shaft, and trunnion?
Roger. We don't have that now; NA.
Okay. I missed the number. Was it 011?
Affirmative. Landmark ID is 11.
Thank you, and 125 32 1600.
Roger.
Where's your procedures book? Oh, I don't need that yet, I guess.
Forget it. I see you're doing alignment, right now.
Yes.
One thing at a time. I'll try to get your tracking data out for you if you'd like.
Yes. You mean the landmark track?
Yes.
The landmark?
Yes. Okay, you're going to be doing it on Baja California, and I'll - a -
Okay, you can stop the rates. I got a good.
Okay,.
Better not.
Hey, you want to put these magazines back where they started out?
Well, yes; you know, it might not be a bad idea.
I think it would be a good idea.
Yes.
Okay, I - I'll segregate them here.
Okay. And then, Rusty, if you...
as a matter of fact, it isn't down where it's supposed to be. Maybe Dave knows where it is.
Okay, well - I'll tell you what, when you're going around the spacecraft, there's some up here in F-1, and you might get that film out of the IOS, too - the ISA. Try to get it all in a pile someplace.
And if you don't find the film - Well, we'll wait until after landmark tracking's over.
Well, as a matter of fact, we've got to stow the LM film somewhere.
Uh oh! MASTER ALARM.
Got it. I'll be there; just a minute, let me look. Fuel Cell 2 and CRYO PRESS. Yes, tank 1 is down. hydrogen tank.
Now, don't be so serious, now. How could you do a that?
(Laughter) You didn't! You ought to be ashamed of yourself. You're as bad as me. I'm going to throw you in the wastebasket.
(Singing)
that 64 again. Is it A or B?
Oh, I gave you the wrong scoop. You targeted Baja - northern Baja California. It's right across the Gulf of California. Mexico proper.
You got some light on out there, Jim?
Outside?
Yes.
No. The Moon is out there, but that's on the other side of the spacecraft, Dave. Well, no - On second thought, we're - we're looking...
Something's reflecting; maybe it's the Moon.
The Moon might just be getting into the optics. It's not quite on the Z - X-axis. It's just about - oh, maybe 20.
Yes.
The Moon is about 10 degrees above the X-axis.
Well, shoot..
125:03:00, right?
Verified.
That okay?
Roil, pitch, and yaw. Yes, that's what we're on now.
25, Acrux.
What'd you do, get Canopus and Acrux?
Yes.
That's almost as good as my Sirius.
There's Acrux, way down there.
Acrux is weak, because it's got a buddy.
Right next to it, huh?
in - I don't know whether it's pitch or something - It's some rate.
Some rate. Okay, it looks like it's probably pitch, Dave. Pitch - That's not a B, that's a sequence, so we use A for that.
Okay, can't hold it for much longer.
Okay.
I'm looking at the rates. pitch going okay?
Okay, that's good. I'm.
help?
Will I hurt your arm? That's not my tracking arm;.
(Laughter)
I knew we were going to have high angles, because we were too far off.
What were they? Oh, the first numbers?
Have you got the flight plan, Jim?
I have it right here. What do you need?
Those angles - Like those...
Oh, oh, yes. Right, coming up.
I can't even figure out what they do with this data. This doesn't sound tell them two people can do.
Okay, very good. Yes.
is 30.
Okay.
Reading from right to left: 124:41:30.
Hey, troops, we're more than halfway through the flight.
Gees, that's good.
this is okay.
Yes, it sure is.
Hey, that's right. We'll still have a little eating, won't we? find that stuff in the flight plan that. Oh, that's another couple of hours yet.
Hey, that's the end of your day (laughter). Can you believe that?
Hey, I tell you one thing, we got lots of it left, though - movie film.
Movie film?
How's that look, Jim?
200 - 106; that's good.
torquing angles.
I'll be darned.
Let me slide over there and turn Rusty's light - Rusty, do you need your lights up that bright? Yes, I guess you do, as a matter of fact. Hey, I just got a view out the window better. Fix your window or you can't do it.
Where the hell is B-8?
B-8's down there in the bottom. Should be in the lower equipment...
Way, way over here, Rusty.
in the lower equipment bay.
By my left foot. And we've got to get alignment. Boy, there's Regor and he's got a little buddy, too. Okay. And it seems to be working, Jim.
Good. And I'll tell you, it's hung right about 14 degrees, and I couldn't drive it manually at all.
You've just got to have the right touch, Jim.
I know it. I figure as long as you know how to do it, I don't have to have the right touch. If you don't know how to do it, then I'll do it. Then I'll get the right touch.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Right.
What's her father?
They weren't able to find him.
Are you saying necessity is a bastard?
Egads.
Need the procedures list.
Here's the procedures book.
Hey, I need the landmark-track book, too.
Landmark.
Oh, the map, Jim.
Yes, I tried to get those out, but I was just going to get in the way.
I'll get them.
I'll show you where the landmark is, just a minute.
Yes. Okay.
I can show you it right now?
Oh, yes? What - what was it? Tell me. Tell me.
I wanted to find out if I had analyzed it right. If it worked for landmark tracking - if it doesn't work...
Where did you find that piece of gunk?
(Laughter)
I'll put you in gimbal lock, and you won't even track.
You know that mechanical screw-in on that?
Yes.
It came floating out of there, and that shaft screw go as far as the trunnion. We still have to unlock I'm not sure because maybe what this extra one of these things is - See, it's got to have one of these things...
Looks like it's been Cut in half, too.
Yes. a zipper pocket. Why don't you put it in your zipper pocket down there?
Oh, do you? I don't have much in my zipper pocket. Give it to me.
Here, I'll take that, and let me show you where the landmark is; right there, number 11; right there. In Mexico, right across the Gulf.
Can you pick it up on the next REV?
No.
I just copied.
I tell you what, I'll get a piece of tape and tape to my chain the tape. I'll just tape it on my chain, here.
Good, maybe you can help it; it may stop working completely (laughter). Throw me the tape, and I'll tape it up for you. Get out your landmark-track map.
I don't know where the tape...
Hey, Jim.
Yes.
Can you a second?
Can I do what?
Jim, you work your foot loose?
Yes.
Let's see: 125:32:16 47...1
Hey, you do the landmark tracking...
32 and 45...
You start the landmark tracking about 125:40, Dave.
Okay. You start it at 40, you said?
Yes, just about that time.
Landmark number 11.
Hey, Rusty, if you're fooling around down there (laughter) or whatever you're doing, would you break out the other standard Hasselblad, please?
Where is it?
I don't have any idea. Oh, that should be in the - We didn't leave that in the LM, did we?
No, we brought it over.
Okay, then it's in the ISA, and the ISA is at the hatch cover - the tunnel hatch bag. It should be bound underneath my seat, strapped on the bottom of my seat.
Boy, this damned is an impossible container! It sure is...
That - that little one down there?
Damn!
It has to go in there exactly the way it says: front and then the right side up and everything, or you will really get screwed up. You'll get it in, and you won't be able to get it out again.
Boy! McDivitt, does your corner stink!
(Laughter)
Man, oh man!
Must be from your suit, huh?
Hey, where's the thing, in the L-shaped bag?
Yes.
The bottom or top, do you know?
Oh, no. I'm sorry now. I - I wasn't thinking. I - It's - it should be - Not in the L-shaped bag, it's in the tunnel hatch bag, which is strapped on the bottom of my seat.
Hey,.
Yes,.
Give me a minute, and I'll have some calculating, here.
How are we going to do this? I guess I'll just...
Oh, I'll tell you.
point the nose down the track, and...
No, no.
pitch down a little bit?
No.
No? Alright. You tell me then.
We've got all that worked out.
Who - who's this "we" Jazz?
Come on now..
Oh, hell. Would you get me the piece of tape in here, and I'm quite sure that it is..
Okay, the - I'll brief you.
Dave, would you give me the tape while you're briefing me?
The tape? I just looked in here and couldn't find it.
Oh, really?
Yes.
I thought sure we put it back in there this morning. I had looked in there once. But I only went through...
Here's another little piece; here, I'll give it to you.
Okay, I don't need much of a piece.
Jim?
Thank you.
Do you have one?
What?
Tape?
No, no...
that's okay. Here, Jim.
Thank you.
Did you cheek the optics to see if they weren't around 64.2?
Yes, it goes all the way.
I'd like to have a reliable set of optics. It's really no computer and I'd like to have the whole thing working.
Hey - I'll tell you - I'll give you the thing to read that we - that we put together here. But anyway, what you do - We're - we're going to track with the roll-yaw thing. So you get out of plane, below the bull's-eye, and you point - you cock the thing up until you...
I thought we were tracking on the in-plane.
No, no, no, no. We're going to do the roll-yaw.
Oh, shoot.
Which is really only roll. It's real easy. You get out of plane - Actually, you end up pitch down below the bull's-eye out of plane - You cock the optics up...
Yes, and then we just roll over.
You just roll. You put in an ORB RATE roll. We could do this with - I'd like to, if, you know, if we get good at it later on, use the ORB RATE thing to see if one guy could do this by himself, when on the Moon. You get the spacecraft going in ORB RATE automatically...
The yaw - yaw-roll or the - the pitch.
Why, you could do - you could do - X Y Z.
I think it would be easier if one guy were doing it and could use the procedure we just used except for pitch.
Good point. Good point.
Yes, but it'd cost more here, too,.
Well, anyway -
Okay. But that's an out-of-plane one; I thought we did anyway with the out-of-plane one when and we were only going to do the in-plane one.
No, we're doing the out-of-plane one, because that was for the LM on.
Yes.
Anyway, you get out there, and you just set up a roll rate, and I'll do Auto OPTICS. And then when I get locked on, you try and reach me in ORB RATE roll, as we come out.
If I pitch down, I'd see the horizon.
Yes.
Yes. I -
Deke and I worked it out once where you just yawed out of plane and pitched down and stayed right below the bull's-eye. And Frank Hughes said that Lovell and Borman had worked one out which you did a little different, which you roll and then pitch out of plane; and, that way, you've got your optics cocked up already which might be a little cheaper.
You - you roll - You're charging along in plane, heads up; you roll 90 degrees, then you pitch 55 degrees. Then you roll again, you get the optics - zero optics near the horizon. That's all there is to it.
Oh, you roll...
I've never done that, but that sounds like - Why don't you think about it, and do whichever way you think is best? There's - there are two ways. One way, we're applying in plane...
Yes.
with an in-plane alignment. One way is to yaw out and pitch down and stay below gimbal lock. The other way is to roll while you're in plane and pitch up 55 degrees, which is not - That keeps you out of gimbal lock, too. Then your optics are cocked, and you have to roll to get the optics line of sight sort of perpendicular to the ground.
Yes, that's no - You end up with you not really being - not having your axis perpendicular to the plane.
Yes, I know it.
You got the plane, like this, in the orbit here, like this. See, the optics really would rotate this way with respect to the plane, if you had a zero trunnion. And, you know...
Yes, you want to have it - you want to start it as near zero as you can.
Yes.
So you have as much articulation on...
Yes.
this as you go by.
Seems like you don't want to be pitched down.
I - I - That's what I thought, too, until...
There's 55 degrees.
It seems to me like when you get over the target - you want to be - The target's right down here -
Yes, and we're going this way.
You'd like to be - like this? As you - as you come in to it, you'd sort of like to be like this, so that the optics has a full run. If the target's here, and you're coming around the world like that you know, and then you start your ORB RATE as you get over it. But you do your tracking out here. You only get about 40, 45 seconds, in Earth. It really goes quick. Once you get the target, man, you really got to get on it. Anyway, think about it; do whichever way...
It almost seems like it's the best way is if the plane were this way - You would bet you ought to be yaw down 90 degrees, pitch down about 30.
Yes.
in other words, you go like this; you're going to have a little more time on your -
Yes, I think that's better, too, but I don't know; it's six of one and half dozen of the other.
Well, listen, if you're through screwing around here, I'll start...
No, I want to run through the program once more.
(Laughter)
A little detail.
Yes, a minor detail.
Okay, I think I'll go ahead and align the GDC here while we're waiting.
Yes, just go to RATE while we're waiting.
Did you find all that stuff, Rusty?
Yes, I'm gradually finding it.
(Laughter) You're running it down. How many cameras...
Apollo 9, Houston through Carnarvon. Standing by.
Roger, Houston. Apollo 9, here.
Roger. I just wanted to make sure that you got the word that that landmark is 60 miles north of your track.
Roger. Sixty miles north; thank you.
So that means you're going to have to yaw - yaw left.
Yaw to the left, that's right.
Jim?
Yes.
Can you do something here for me?
That little go up and go right through that found a place I might want to put the camera.
Hey, where do you want to stow this LM data? Why don't we leave it in the ISA? I'd sort of like to sort it out and start thinking about where we're going to put it, so why don't we just leave it there for right now?
Okay.
We've got some other books, and some other LM data books up there, too, that we want to get.
Apollo 9, Houston. Thirty seconds LOS; Guam at 07.
All right. Very good.
Ow!
Yes, that ought to do it...
Well, I came up with a conclusion that we've got all the movie film we could possibly use.
Yes. We didn't really get as much stuff done as I had hoped.
Well, I don't think we used as much film getting it done as we hoped - I mean, as we thought.
Yes.
Well, I think we took pictures of everything we planned to.
Wow, that fuel cell 2 is really up there now!
How high is it?
It's up at 186.
What's the limit? 220, isn't it? 225?
I don't know. 200, I guess, or 250; I don't know. They changed it everytime they went up to where ever they had the limit. (Laughter) Oh, good -
Hey, we never did chlorinate the water.
Oh, that's right.
I think we'll probably live.
Do you really think so?
I'm not sure.
Oh, shoot! Look, I brought another map along here just so we'd have another map to look at to tell where we were. It's down in my suit, and I have get it out.
Okay, I think I got it squared away.
Okay.
I think I got it squared away. Oh, look, there is that landmark tracking, landmark ID, control m - time required to acquire and identify, comment, coordination of optics and spacecraft motion, n - Okay. Well, I'll put it in there and hope that Auto optics drives.
Hey, does the and the mechanical drive, does it move now? Is it...
No, it's still stuck.
Oh! Would you believe I just looked in there, I looked right into the Sun.
(Laughter) Yes, I'd believe that because the Sun just now coming up.
Oh, yes.
Is there a - is there standard down there, too, Rusty? In the ISA?
Yes, I passed it up!
Pass me the wide.
Hey, where in the hell did I put the standard? I got it out.
You gave me it. Wait a minute now; maybe you didn't. You have a standard over there? Alright, I have a standard over here.
Yes.
Okay, I thought you passed me - Okay, then...
No, I passed you two of them.
Alright.
Okay, we got 27 minutes. I think I know - I know what I'm going to do. I want to make five marks, maybe.
I guess I might as well take sunrise photo for the flight.
(Singing). Oh, it looks 15.
Hey, maybe you guys want to take a - No, you won't be able to see it. Oh, I bet you will after -
The what?
Pictures of this place.
No, we won't be able to see it.
Hey, listen. I guess - What you want to do - is - What are you going to do now? You're going to -
I'm going to pitch around, and I'm going to try and get down below the ball.
Yes.
Okay, now the thing that - the thing that's going to be tough is to be able to tell exactly where I am in roll.
Yes, I know it. How are you going to do that?
I'm going to be pitch down, I'm going to try to look out the window, and I'm going to try to get -
You ought to be able to shoot a horizon.
Yes. That's why I'm going to - that's why I want to go on over there and pitch down.
You want to be cocked up so that your Z-axis...
Look out the window right now.
Yes.
Okay, you want to be something like that.
but you're in plane now.
Yes, I know, but I want to be out of plane...
Out of plane.
pitch down, and roll...
Just like that; yes, that looks like that would be good. Yes, and then you're going to start - When we get there, you start a roll right.
Left. Right...
Roll right, but don't start to roll right...
until you get the...
until I say...
say to roll right.
that we're getting there.
That ought to be exciting!.
(Laughter)
Do you feel like you're a guinea pig to a - You know, here we practice for all this stuff, that we're really going to do, and we've done it all; and now we've got to stumble through this other stuff like a bunch of stumblebums.
Apollo 9, Houston through Guam.
Go ahead, Houston. This is Apollo 9.
Roger, Jim. If you have got time - a minute, we've got a PUGS switch test we'd like to have you copy and perform. If you don't have time here, we can do it later, but...
Houston, Apollo 9 here. I'm having a pretty tough time reading you.
9, Houston. How now?
That's much better.
Okay, Jim. We have a PUGS switch test we would like to have you perform if you have time.
Okay. Just a minute.
Okay. You want us to copy this thing down, or you want us to do it just as we are talking to you?
You can do it, but it will take SPS-13 malfunction procedure.
Okay. Stand by one.
9, Houston. I can probably read it to you as we go.
Okay. Go ahead; I've got the SPS-13 out end up.
Okay. SPS gaging to AC-1.
Roger. Gaging to AC-1.
SPS heaters and gaging, maim A and main B, CLOSED.
Stand by.
Roger. They're CLOSED.
PUGS mode switch to Normal.
Roger. PUGS mode to Normal.
And test switch to POSITION 2 for 8 seconds.
Roger. It was there for 8 seconds.
Roger. PUGS mode switch to AUXILIARY.
Roger. PUGS mode to AUXILIARY.
Okay. Do SPS-13, box 2 and 4, and let us know of any results.
Okay.
We would like the quantity readings and the unbalance meter before and after each activation of the test switch.
Okay. You were a little late on that request. I'm not sure where it started. I just finished Test 1 for 10 seconds, and they're reading 24.9 and 23.4, and the unbalance is reading 400-INCREASE.
Roger.
Okay. I have gone to 2 for 10 Seconds, and they read 23.5 and 22.0.
Roger.
And the unbalance is 380 - again on the increase side.
Roger. 380-INCREASE.
Okay. And you also want block 4, right?
Affirmative; block 4.
Okay. And I just performed - Are you still with me, Houston?
Affirmative.
Okay. Just performed block 4, and after the initial jumpback on the normal systems, it was reading 23.1, 21.1, INCREASE-500, and it remained there all through block 4. No change.
Okay. We copy.
Although the caution warning light did come on after about 5 to 6 seconds.
Okay.
9, Houston. We'd like to verify that you are in PRIMARY and not Normal when you went through block 4.
Oops.
I beg your pardon; I was in Normal.
Okay.
I'll go PRIMARY and do it for you.
Roger.
MASTER ALARM.
9, Houston. If you can hold off there, we're about LOS. We'll catch you first time in Hawaii on that.
Roger.
Roger. I've got the data now, if you'd like it.
Will be Hawaii at 22.
Are you eating again?
Now I know why you go down there into the lower equipment bay. All the time, I thought you were down there taking; you're down there eating.
Man, I get hungry.
You're really a nice guy. Sneak out on your buddies and eat.
It's the only way I ever get to eat in this outfit.
I hope it isn't cloudy.
No, it was nice and clear down there, Dave.
They kind of like the sun-glint pictures, don't they?
Yes, as a matter of fact, they do.
No, you guys, don't use them all up. Wait until we get to a higher orbit. That's prettier up there.
How many pictures did we decide we had, Rusty?
I can't tell because Dave has the procedures book.
You done with the procedures book, Dave?
No, I'm just getting ready to start using it now.
Yes, okay.
Listen, without this crutch over here - Why, landmark tracking would be a zero; it probably will be a zero anyway.
Let's see; those quads we were supposed to use were A and D, weren't they? A and D. B Off, C Off, O Off, A On.
Got to hurry. I'm making myself nervous.
Making me nervous.
I don't mind your I know how to do that.
(Laughter)
How about that? Actually, the son of a gun is really smart!
Don't do that; I was - I was moving towards gimbal lock, and all of a sudden, bang, there it is; you know, and I - Oh, shoot!
Where are we? Over the Pacific, aren't we?
Right.
Have you rolled up yet to clock yourself?
No, I haven't, Dave. I'm still horizontal.
Okay. Got 12 minutes. If you do that, I can...
12 minutes for what?
Until we start - mark it.
No, we don't.
Yes. We sure do.
What time do we start marking? I thought it was at about 40. 125...
No, 32. The pad was at 32.
Oh, okay. (Yawn) You have.
Yes, that's out of the field of view.
Oh.
Several times. Steady, steady according to R-3.
It's cloudy again.
Yes, so far. Hey, which way do we go? We're going to the right, huh? I mean I hate to tell you what we're coming up with. Lots of more clouds.
Yes. It was clear over Baja this morning, so - As a matter of fact, it was clear over on the other side, too.
Do you remember what time that last pass was over the - What time did we start that other thing?
124:00:20- Something - It was 124:03:48 that they wanted me to my update.
We got a long way to go, Jim, in roll.
Right.
I'd really like to be seeing the horizon.
Okay, can we get them over there...
Yes.
We're coming up on that right now.
Okay.
Apollo 9, Houston through Hawaii.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 9.
Roger. Loud and clear. On this PUGS switch test, we'll let you continue with your landmark tracking there, and we'll check back over Guam the next rev.
Okay.
9, Houston. We're watching your middle gimbal angle for you, and we'll keep you advised.
Roger.
I'm keeping a pretty close eye ou it, too.
I would assume so.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Houston, Go.
Okay. Everything was working good in the optics until I went out of Auto optics and started trying to track it manually, and the shaft and telescope hung up again.
Great.
And I tried to get it unstuck there by releasing it manually, and finally got it to move again, but then got a P00's NO-GO at the Mark program alarm, so I guess it was probably out of sync.
Roger. Understand.
Houston, generally it looked like this roll technique - yaw and then roll technique looks pretty good. The roll rate was such that I would not have had to use hardly any drive on the optics to take the Marks, except I could not get any shaft, and that's what wiped me out.
Okay. Very fine.
If somebody could figure out a way to unstick this shaft, you know, like permanently, I think we'd be in good shape.
Okay. We're tearing one apart over here now, and trying to take a look at it to see if we come up with anything.
Okay. I'm sure you are.
Apollo 9, Houston. If you are through with the computer there, we'd like to have you go to P00 and look at your REFSMMAT some time before we leave Texas.
Okay. Standby.
9, Houston. We only have about 1 more minute here at Texas, and then Tananarive at 16.
Roger. You've got P00 in Accept as soon as - I guess - the computer gets through integrating forward.
Roger. We don't need Accept.
Be advised your sweet little secretary will be listening, probably over Tananarive - if we can get you.
Very good. Give us a holler.
Okay.
Yes, it doesn't make any difference whether you can hear it or not.
Quarter of 4 which way is the land here?
It's back that way.
You see the Panama Canal?
(Laughter)
We must be close to it; I think we might have passed it.
Do you know - do you know - Did We go across Venezuela or something?
you want to get it locked to target, Dave?
Yes. No, actually, when you were doing that, I didn't - didn't know what to do, so I was just looking out the window here, and pretty soon - out here - pretty soon I saw the - coastline come up and the distance from Baja and the Gulf are really quite low, but I couldn't see - I couldn't see the Gulf so we could past it. By then you were - I might have -
would have had the marks long before this...
I needed you to tell me whether to roll fast or not, because - we - When we're cocked up like this I can't see down through that way.
Well, did you hear me marking?
Yes.
just perfect. I was right on it. But then, it disappeared; I took about one.
Okay, well, by then, see, I had - I had started about a half-a-degree-per-second roll, because it didn't.
That was fine; that was just right.
But I should have started a little earlier...
Yes, probably a little -
because, as we came across - See, I thought you were looking instead of being right there. You were still over like this. And that's when I started rolling.
Yes.
I couldn't even tell you how far whether it was the optics or the spacecraft, because I was having trouble getting on to target.
Yes.
the optics or the.
Are we pointed down at the ground now?
Yes, just about.
my side is.
And I tracked - two sets of.
You tracked what?
Two sets of as you were coming across it. That's the track I've seen...
I know,...
which is the.
but it worked fine on the clouds.
It's way off on the state vector. Quite a ways off from the target.
Oh, yes.
Auto OPTICS, yes.. This big island, really and the target. It's as far from the target over here as that island. It seems to me, I got to give you a state vector up there.
Ohh, let's see. Is there a scale on here anyplace?
No..
89.
What?
Pretty far off.
Pretty far off. Oh, shit, I'm going to have to waste some fuel here or go into gimbal lock.
Oh, we don't go to drifting flight until 127. Power down spacecraft at 127. And a filter change.
Oh, look at that funny-looking planet. My God!.
hold up, Dave. Hmm. I'll be darned.
It's like a great big round cloud with a peak in the middle. Looks like a mountain.
Well, shoot, I hate to waste that gas,.
You don't use much though.
Matter of fact, I did all of that in B - B roll - or B roll. I only had 6 seconds and I had B-1 and B - two B-roll thrusters on, and two A-pitch thrusters on, and two yaw-B thrusters on.
I think B is so hard to.
Where is that update book that has the consumable redlines here?
It's in the update pad; I don't know where that is.
look at the map, Jim.
Do what?
map?
Get out the other map, too, so map.
Probably too far off now. Oh, I see, I was going down the south of coast - coast of South America, that's what I was doing.
I think we're in the other orbit there.
Oh, okay. I was going across the middle of South America.
Oh, did you get that far, David?
Oh, shoot, I guess I better go ahead and. Oh, I got a - a thought. Maybe we ought not to power the IMU down.
Why?
I'm not sure I can do a P51 with.
Well, I'm pretty sure you can't. I guess we could always maneuver the spacecraft. the shaft and the.
No, you go to - to zero,
Yes, that's a good idea.
Just go to zero.
Yes, okay. We got a couple or three REV's before that.
(Singing)
Rusty.
Yes. Yes, what?
Nothing. those clouds.
Yes, they're broken clouds.
You got some more on landmark tracking tomorrow, Dave.
Yes. I was just.
Matter of fact, you have all the time. Holy Christmas, you do the landmark tracking all day long tomorrow!
Yes?
Yes!
Yes, I thought they said today's was for. Look, we're right down on top of a thunderstorm down there.
Man, we really do it tomorrow: P51, the update, P52, landmark tracking,, landmark tracking, P52, landmark tracking, P52, landmark tracking...
landmark tracking, P52, landmark tracking...
(Laughter)
Shoot, all we're doing now is going around here trying to - Shit, I want to look for a while.
Yes. Let's just do that. Let's just take an hour out for looking.
Where is that big map?
Right here.
Let's see if we can get a map update. Dave, drive the boat - drive the boat for a while just to see if we get a gimbal lock. Let me go down and get the other map - I was going to throw out the weather map. I said, "No, don't do that; put it in my pocket." We've still got the SO 65.
No, we determine the landmarks, yet.
Do we?
Yes, we got a great big world map.
Okay, let me get this other one out, and I'll show you the...
We've each got a map and a camera; we can't miss.
Say,...
Oh, shoot, it's way down in the bottom of that bag.
7 hours plus.
Oh, the heck with it. Listen, it's way down there. I'll get the other one.
Oh ho, we just came across here.
Look at this thing right here. Here is the map update right here. 119:10 6 hours and 40 minutes. 6 hours and 40 minutes.
Oh, I see. I read out - I was looking at the wrong...
You know where I think we are?
Did you say there was an SO 65 map in the?
Yes,.
You know this is going to be the last of the.
Yes.
Well, this one here is, but it's all folded up.
Hasselblad? for SO 65.
Okay, black is the Hasselblad, right?
Great! I think I got a bunch of them.
Did you, right there?
Yes.
we ought to have more of that SO 65 stuff.
Yes, I think.
Let's see, we don't have a, do we?
Yes, yes, by all means.
We also need a lithium hydroxide canister change.
Okay.
Put this away. Put the optics away, and let me see.
Where's our update book? Do you have that down there, Dave?
No, not...
Oh, it's here, Dave. I've got it; I've got it. You've got the procedures book there though. Hey, listen, tomorrow we don't even have burn. And tomorrow ought to be nothing but absolute.
Jim, here's your.
Okay. Stick it up there, we've got to find a place to put that.
How much film do we have left, Rusty?
Well, that was - Just going to add up, here.
Really?
Also, I need the procedures.
Okay.
Oh, I know.
Waste water dump at 128:50.
128:50; why don't I put it over here then.
Hey, maybe having a lot of fuel in quad B is going to be a big help because we can use that for all our landmark tracking.
Say, you're right. Maybe they were thinking of that.
Okay, got that. Okay, CO2 filter change at 26 hours; that's in about 4 minutes. You want to do that, Dave?
Yes, I'll do it right now.
Okay, change number 11. Take 13 and put in A, and put 11 in A-3.
Have we been using that grimy stuff every time?
I have, yes. I didn't last time.
(Laughter)
I've used it once at least every time..
You know, I've never done - I don't guess I've - I've always pulled the right one out, pulled that one out correctly, but when I started shifting the other one's around in there, I -
You think it's really necessary?
I don't know. I'd use it. Do it anyway; it pacifies everybody.
13 to A and 11 to what?
I can't ever remember it. Gees.
11 to A-3. And the tape - Let's see, what do you do with the tape? Here's the tape right here.
Oh, hey, we ought to clean the screens again. I bet they're full of gunk.
Oh, yes. They really are. I looked at that one down there. I guess I couldn't quite get to it; I was down underneath the couch. is steady.
Yes, in fact, the suit temperature's going up.
It sure has.
I think this cabin temperature's up higher than it has been the whole damn flight. It's 75 degrees.
Yea!
(Laughter)
Tonight I'm going to bathe.
I was thinking the same thing. I'm going to take some hot water and a rag and really go over it all.
Well, don't put your grubby rag back in the drinking water, after you've bathed your halls with it.
I don't'- I don't smell. It's not me that's generating all these odors.
I know, but I'm getting tired of drinking off of your urine bag.
You mean you don't like...
for me to stow my over the, I mean.
No, I don't. I keep the outside of me dirty, but the inside of me is clean.
What's the P CO2, Rusty?
The P CO2 is 1.7.
Hope they hear us over Tananarive.
So do I.
Hey, great, if he's back there, my stereo set's up back there (laughter).
(Laughter) Matter of fact, I didn't half believe that she ever even made it.
You know what,.
Davey, how you going to get your car back?
Oh, I'll probably let somebody drive it.
Oh, yes. Well, who's going to drive it?
Well, I think I have, you know, somebody who's going to drive it; I'm not sure.
Oh, really? Well, listen. If you can't find t anybody -
Did you have.
What?
Did you have anybody to drive?
Well, I know what we can do. When we get over there, let's just.
When we get over Tananarive, let's tell them we want to shut the IMU down. All we need is to keep an eye on the gimbal lock.
what we're going to do; why don't you clean that other? Really got.
Well, I haven't found E. Does anyone know where MAG E is?
I bet I know where it is...
I bet it's loaded in the camera, up there. James. Yes, it is. It's in the Hasselblad. I just - I think I just saw it as I put that thing away.
How about checking to see how many there is?
Where did you put it? Magazine F, here.
That's F?
Yes.
Oh, what have you got left?
I've taken 49. That's about a 60 - 60, 60 film pack.
Okay.
Dave, you said you have - E was on the. Where did you put the?
In the - R-3 in the glove compartment where all the other stuff is, you know.
In R-3.
The one with the data cards and all that stuff is...
Okay. Got it.
get away from you.
Somebody losing a lot of hair.
Okay, CO2 canister has been changed.
Oh.
Want to break out the chow?
Might as well.
Where's a big bag of -
Dave, both the food bags are down on top of the lower part of the L-shaped bag.
I only find one!
Well, they're supposed to both be there. I kind of felt there, but that little one was...
floating away.
Hey, you know what? We don't have nearly as much filth - filthy over here today. gathered it up last night.
Got rid of the LM.
Hell, yes.
Yes, and every time you go in that tunnel, boy, it just fills up.
Let me the flight plan up.
(Laughter)
if we ever do. Wait until we get back and find out there's only.
Oh, well. We tried.
Oh, hey, we aren't supposed to.
126:04. Stow the SO 65 magazines and cameras. Now here's where the flight planner really did something right. He gave us 20 minutes to stow the magazines and cameras.
Oh, you're kidding (laughter).
(Laughter)
And they give us 15 minutes to restow the tunnel alone.
(Laughter) That's a hell of a, isn't it?
You know how long they gave us to unstow and install SO 65 cameras? 50 minutes.
50?
Five zero (laughter).
Well, that will be a nice one.
(Laughter) No, I guess that's toward the end of the.
Figured we'd be tired.
Hey, there's another plan for today.
Another what?
That frapping exerciser.
Right. I had been thinking about that all day.
Oh, here's the grab bag. What's in the grab bag, today? Steaks. Ooh, I'm going to have fish. Oh, it's pretty good.
I think I'll have some fish with you.
Is it Friday?
I don't know.
Hey, what day is it?
I don't know.
(Laughter) in the world.
Shoot, I don't even know must be Friday about. Friday or Saturday.
Probably catching up on our.
Hey, there's I use to hate that stuff, but they've changed it.
Did you get those screens over here?
Yes.
Very good.
I'm going to and go in a corner and write some things down about the rendezvous, because I don't have anybody to talk to about what I was doing.
That's what I wanted to do, too. That's what I started to do last night, and I never got it done.
I'm afraid I'm going to forget some of those things.
Like that vroom-vroom of the descent engine.
Yes.
(Laughter)
No, fortunately, I'd like to.
That'll happen when you I think might worry. Maybe we're just going to get a chance to do some of the NCC 109 maneuvers.
Damn it! There was one film pack I didn't look a...
that right there.
You don't want your, do you?
Huh?
you put the water in.
Did I get Rusty's hot or cold?
Cold. Gee, I'm really I got the camera, too.
Really?
Yes. Except my camera's got a.
Hey, Rusty, are we in gimbal lock?
No, I can't even see. Oh,. We would be in the LM, but we're not in this (laughter).
(Laughter)
I sure will be glad when I get back to flying airplanes and driving automobiles and to hell with spacecraft.
They all have that, right?
I - I think I'm going to, take up.
Oh, hell!
What?
I put the hot water in the chicken salad.
(Laughter)
I bet it doesn't taste very good now.
Now I have lukewarm salmon salad. God bless it!
Oh, shoot. That one film pack that I didn't look at, I don't know how the film.
Where is it?
B-8.
What?
B-8.
B-8.
You are, huh?.
However, this is the McDivitt corner.
What film pack is it, Rusty?
I think it's on the camera - on the 16 millimeter -
It's five film packs here.
Oh, wait a minute. Shoot, there's no 16 milli -
Let me tell you which film packs I have down here. I have I, M, K, R, and H.
Yes, the one I need is J. I'm trying to think where it is.
Oh, I know where J is. J, I think, is in A-7.
No, no.
What?
No. It's got to be on the camera. Where is - where is our camera? The CSM camera, Dave?
That's where it is, then.
No, and put it somewhere.
Here's J, right here. How about that?
J is. It's full.
Full?
Full.
Crazy. We ought to do some -
set ORB rate up, point X-axis to the ground -
Take some telephoto 75-millimeter movies.
Telephoto 75-millimeter pictures.
Okay...
Let me - let me...
you want a summary?
Yes, let me - I'm put this down here. I'm going to put J, I'm going J in B-8 down here. I'm going to put it on the log here. count on using all the film tomorrow and the next day.
Is that right?
How many days have we been up here; this is 6. We'll be up here 11 days. 6 from 11 - Okay, that we've got 2 days and divide that by 3. Okay, what have we got?
I think it's the 16 millimeter. Oh, we did use on the 16 millimeter, didn't we?
Yes, we've got 7.1 magazines left.
No, we've got.
Of 16 millimeter?
Yes.
Well, how come we didn't use...
Two of them are C-IN, though, by the way.
Yes, but we had that planned to use them all.
I know; we - we were conservative.
We didn't use any of the C-IN; we didn't take a single picture of the.
Yes, we did.
Did we?
Yes, I took a picture of Dave getting the tunnel cleared out.
Oh, good.
Did you really?
Yes.
How many of these that are remaining are C-IN?
Two.
Two. Oh, that's right, we added - we added one C-IN to take care of the tunnel thing, didn't we? So there's one C-IN and six other ones. Gee, I didn't even know you were taking pictures down.
You ought to run out these little bitty ones. 0.2, 0.3, 0.8...
Yes.
because we really have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Now, the 70 millimeter.
606 frames; not bad.
606!
Yes.
Remaining?
Yes. 200 frames a day to take for the next 3 days.
Hey, that's...
Well, actually, let's take - save one of these for the last day just in case we need to shoot something for splashdown. I also think we probably ought to put the wide angle away, unless we've got some special shot for it..
Very good, Mr. Schweiekart..
Yes, and the next thing I want to do is take all I - I've changed my mind on what I think we ought to do. I think we ought to take all the empty ones and stick them in the most inconvenient place.
Yes, that's quite right.
Like it's going to be load up B-8.
But B-8 only takes - only takes 16 millimeter.
I know it, but we've got enough - all of these 16 millimeters...
Right.
to - 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Yes, we've got six empty ones, and there's room in there for six empties. We'll do that after dinner, okay?
And speaking of dinner -
Yes, I think I'd like some, too. I don't know what I'm going to eat, but I'm going to try.
Yes, how does your stomach feel?
Well, I don't know, it was pretty good at breakfast I dinner, but my stomach was good at breakfast. Honestly, I don't know if it's my stomach or what it is.
FLOODLIGHTS are going Off.
Spaghetti.
That's good stuff.
That's not a very big seller up there, is it?
Not a very good what?
A very big seller. Bacon.
Oh, I've been eating it at least a package a morning.
Well, we seem to have an awful lot left. want it, I thought we could just complaining so much, I -
Well, me too, but...
mine.
Yes.
No, I could eat -
It's awfully dry; in fact, so much drier than what it ever was on the ground, I can hardly believe...
Yes, well, you know, it's not all like that, Rusty. I had one the other day that was almost like powder. I had to take and eat it. But most of the other ones...
Okay. Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 9, here. Is she there?
Roger. Loud and clear, now.
Roger. Is Charley there?
Affirmative.
Okay. Stand by, Charley.
Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday, dear Charley, happy birthday to you.
She's getting a great kick out of it and says, "Thank you."
Okay. Sorry we didn't have time to celebrate before the launch.
She said it was beautiful.
Okay. We think she is, too.
Roger.
Hey, that's the first time Tananarive...
When you get a chance there, we could use the number of frames used on SO65.
25 plus seven.
Okay. We used 25 frames on - what we were supposed to from California on over toward Texas and we used seven frames across Houston. We used one frame to check the thing out when we put it up - in the window to make sure that all of the - film magazine.
worked and we bumped up against the film starter one time...
and we used one additional frame.
Roger. One additional, one to start, seven over Texas, and seven somewhere else. Is that correct?
You broke up a little there. There was one to check...
things out to see if it worked...
there was one accidental one, there were seven - I say, there was seven over Houston and there was 25 - 25 across southwest U.S.
Roger. Copy the 25 and the rest of them.
Okay-dokey.
35, that leaves - there was also the one that we wound through..
Oh, yes.
Houston.
Houston. Go.
We were supposed to wind one film - each film pack forward one frame forward by hand, so that one is also gone.
Roger. Understand. You wound one frame by hand.
Roger.
The.
Hey, did you ever disable...
the B-3 thruster when we went Manual?
Hey, you want to ask him if we're going to power down?
Oh, yes.
Houston, this is Apollo 9.
Houston. Go.
Roger.
We are -
How about turning off our IMU DOWN.
All we're doing is spending fuel spinning through, keeping it out of gimbal lock, and we don't need it anymore.
Roger. Stand by. We're checking it.
Jim, did you get that thing aligned? get it aligned without the optics?
Apollo 9, Houston. Affirmative. IMU to STANDBY.
Say again, please.
Houston, Apollo 9. Say again.
Apollo 9, Houston. IMU to STANDBY. We still need the CMC.
You're breaking up, Houston. Say again.
Oh!
About 187.
Where's the food?
Here's the grab bag..
Well, while I'm in the mood to eat.
What? Well, shoot, to power down.
Where's the one in the LEB, Dave?
It's in that - Actually, Rusty, it's drifted over by you, a little...
Oh, I see it; it's up here.
Hey, where's the procedures book? We did find that today.
Is that the one I want? Yes. I looked at that one; what other one is missing? There's your update book, procedures book, crew log. That's the one.
You think so. Boy, I thought it was awfully - really - Oh, I don't know.
While I'm thinking about it, I.
Well, that doesn't look bad. Let me try it out. There we go. That's day 5, meal C..
350-pound cake. Good God, cake! I can think of a lot better things that I want than cake!
Oh, that's right.
Boy, they sure use that helicopter 61 all the time. 60 and 61, they're all aides in the recovery.
Wonder what else we can take movies of outside. You might be able to make a vertical pass across the western states or something. try it.
Hey, maybe we can take a vertical going across Australia. Do we get there in the daylight, toward the end of the flight? If we do...
Yes, I think we will. Matter of fact, I think we about another day or so. Well, matter of fact, I think we can see it right now.. Well, let's see, it's coming up on daylight right now. But we're not going to Australia, are we?
Hmm, when do we get to Australia? Oh, shoot, we've already been over Australia.
Yes, we're north of it now, aren't we?
Not too far, only about two REV's.
Well, let's see, daylight now.
Oh, hey, you can see.
Hey, are we going up over Vietnam, yet?
No, but that we should the next pass.
Wonder if we ought to turn on VHF B.
We should see Sumatra, and Thailand, Borneo, Philippines.. Let's see. Yes. We could be coming up across all those islands between Australia and Asia. Would you believe that I'm going to be pointing at the sky, when you do that?
Hey,, more to eat. Where's the big bag?
It's right here?
Let me look at the little bag, first.
Okay, but there's one here, so -
Yes, throw me the big bag, please.
Okay.
Hey, also we ought to start debriefing on our tape.
Yes. I think dictate a tape on the rendezvous.
Hey, I looked at that burn for day after tomorrow, Dave; that's pretty short.
Boy, that was quite a bounce today, wasn't it?
It was a whop: the engine.
Boy,, it's a bigger residual than we had all day long in the LM.
(Laughter) Whop!
Do we get up early tomorrow morning?
Oh, I.
(Laughter)
I wish - You know what I wish? I wish I'd brought a book.
Do you really?
Yes. I really do.
You're found time somewhere to read?
Well, like right now, I think I would. You know, before I went to bed.
Yes, I kind of feel like, you know, involving myself mentally in something aside from the flight for an hour at a time or something. Maybe I'll play my music. You guys mind if I play my music?
What?
I want to use the tape recorder later on right now.
If we like the music, we'll let you play it; if don't like it, you can't play it. How about that? (Singing) Oh, there's a big hunk of land down there. I wonder what that is?
wild island. Look out - What island did I tell you we'd go over?
Sumatra. I don't know.
Huh?
Yes.
Yes. a little bit.
Apollo 9, Houston through Guam.
47:34.
Apollo 9, Houston through Guam.
Oh, this is a good attitude. Looking at the Sun.
right out.
Do you think so? Oh, yes.
Apollo 9, Houston through Guam.
Hello, Houston through Guam. This is Apollo 9.
Roger. If you have got the time there, we would like to go through that PUGS switching test again.
Alrighty. We will get the PUGS switcher up in the seat.
Okay.
Houston, this is Apollo 9. I've got some data for you from that last one, if you would like that.
Okay. I think I copied the data. I didn't have what your readings were before you started the test 1 position, though, before you started the malfunction procedures.
Okay. That - I didn't either. That is whatever it was after that last burn when we shut it off. I think we read that down some time, but why don't we just do it again.
Okay. Let's do it again. Just PUGS mode to AUXILIARY and then go through SPS-13, boxes 2 and 4, and give us your readings before you start and after each test position.
Okay. How much time do we have in this pass?
Roger, We've got 2 more minutes - 3 more minutes.
Roger. And, Ron, how about the IMU? Did you say go ahead and power it down or not?
Affirmative. You can fire down the IMU, and if you have P00 in Accept, we will give you state vector now.
Okay. P00 and Accept - You have it.
Okay. And, Ron, we have 24.9 and 21.2, and the oxidizer unbalance and Off SCALE HIGH. Okay?
Roger. Copy.
Okay. I'm in AUXILIARY.
Okay. After 10 seconds in AUXILIARY, it's - the oxidizer unbalance is INCREASE - 400, and the quantities are reading 25.2 and 23.6.
25.2 and 23.6.
Roger.
Okay. And after going to test 2, we have 430 pounds increase, 23.8 and 22.1.
Roger. 23.8, 22.1.
Okay. Going to PRIMARY.
Okay. Now, Ron, after I went to PRIMARY, I went to test 1. The OX increased, the oxidizer unbalanced, jumped right away to FULL SCALE HIGH, and stayed there. Its final readings are 28.6 and 21.8. I am going to test 2 now.
Roger. And we didn't quite get your load in the computer, so we will finish it at Hawaii.
Apollo 9, Houston through Hawaii.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 9.
Roger, Jim. If Rusty's got just the readings from that test 2 position - I didn't get those.
Okay, Ron. The final readings were FULL SCALE HIGH increase on the UNBALANCE, and 27,1 to 21.4 OX and fuel.
Roger. FULL SCALE HIGH 27.1 and 21.2.
And the MASTER ALARM came on in all - on all the tests and after about 6 or 7 seconds.
Roger.
And, Houston, Apollo 9. We went over the hill with the VERB 33 cell so we have to proceed for you.
Roger.
Do you want to check anything before we power it down?
Affirmative. If you'll stand by we'll do it down here for you.
Alrighty.
Dave, on your EKG - We still don't have one down here, so what we're recommending is that you switch out your blue sternal lead there with that spare set.
Roger. Understand the blue sternal suit leads to the spare set. Okay. I've taken the thing all apart again so I guess that must be it.
Okay, because we still aren't getting any.
9, Houston. I've got a target of opportunity at about 126 plus 13 if you want it.
Roger. 126 plus 13?
I'm sorry. 127 13.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Roger. And we need a VERB 66 on the computer, also.
I've got a VERB 66 coming up.
Your targets of opportunity are Galapagos Islands, it's south of track about 15 degrees elevation angle. And start at 127 plus 13 plus 23. Try five exposures, 6 seconds apart.
Okay. The Galapagos, south of track 15 degrees elevation angle, 127 13 23; five exposures, 6 seconds apart.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Houston. Go.
9, Houston. Go.
Apollo 9. through Houston - through Redstone this time.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Houston. Go.
Roger. I have a couple of questions. Do you want us to use any fuel to take that picture, the target of opportunities picture? And the second thing I just wanted to tell you, we have four or five 16-millimeter magazines of film left for exterior and we were planning on putting the 75-millimeter lens on and shooting some targets across the ground. You might sort of put that into the flight planners' mind and see if they have anything in particular they would like me to take a picture of.
Will do.
Apollo 9 Houston. Negative on the fuel for that target. If you can cee it, okay. If you can't, fine.
Okay. Very good.
And vector compares good. However, leave the computer going; I think this is one thing we might want to keep powered up this evening.
Okay. Very good.
Apollo 9, Houston. We've come up with a cryo plan here, if you'd like to copy some of the things down.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. I have a cryo plan, if you'd like to copy some of these things down for the power down.
Okay. Just a minute, and let us get a piece of paper.
Roger.
We'll hope it works tonight.
That's okay. So do we.
Go ahead.
Okay. Allow both H2 tanks to decrease until both tanks are 200 psi or below. Maintain 190 to 200 by cycling H2 tank heaters or fans as required. Maintain the pressure at, but not above, 200 psi.
Are you still with us, Ron?
Okay. Fuel cell purges may be used to decrease this pressure as required to 200.
Fuel cell purges to decrease the hydrogen pressure?
Affirmative.
If you - If you need to get it down to below 200.
Okay. And then I guess you want us to keep it all night below 200 by cycling the heaters or the fans, right?
No; I don't want it to start creeping up and we're hoping that it won't creep up above the caution and warning limits prior to morning.
But it's all right to let it go ahead on up above 200 after we go to bed?
Affirmative. After you go to bed.
Okay.
Okay. At your normal powerdown time we want you to perform the following: IMU to STANDBY - you already have that - SCS electronics power switch to Off; the Auto RCS selection switches, Off; the rate control power, Off; translation control power, Off; and leave all other equipment powered up. Over.
Okay. Copy. IMU, STANDBY; SCS electronics power, Off; auto RCS, Off; rotational control power, Off; translational control power, Off; everything else, On. Is that correct?
That's correct.
Okay. Let me go back to the H2 again. You want us to get - Let both H2 tank, go to 200 or below, and then keep it between 190 and 200 by cycling the tanks and fans as required, and not to let it get above 200 before we go to bed, then let it go.
That's correct.
Okay. I guess we got that straight.
Yes, and before you - Before you go to bed we'll have you turn the tank 2 fans On.
Okay.
Yes, difference right there.
Because there's nothing that's going to bring it up, see.
And we're testing this type thing; we hope it works. If it doesn't and we see a good trend in the early part of your rest cycle, we'd just as soon call you then, rather than in the middle of the night.
This is where we are?
Yes. Hey, Jim, you ought to get your camera because the Galapagos.
You're fading out. Would you say the last part again, please?
Roger. We'd just as soon call you early in your rest cycle, rather than in the middle of the night.
What's that for?
I think what he's saying is that it's earlier - I don't know what that might be.
Neither do I.
I think he's saying the same old thing. Just bring pressure down and then put the fans on.
You have to do it.
Well, we did that earlier.
Oh.
Yes.
south of the track.
We're a little bit north.
Hey, Jim,
south.
No, I'm looking for that one.
Yes, yes, we're rolling to the left of it, so I think in about 10 - about 1 minute.
What was the time, Dave?
50:23 - 1 minute from now.
Why don't you roll left and get a couple of blips?
You're rolling right now.
No, we're rolling left, Jim. At least, out the window we're rolling left..
Yes.
Well, you see him out the side windows, Jim?
No.
could now. You can see him through the optics.
Let's figure that out.
Hey, here's another thing - this REV we come across South America through another one of those preferred Hasselblad areas, don't we. Right across Venezuela and all those?
I think it might he dark by the time we get there, Rusty.
Oh, let's see, it's 5:15 in Houston. That ought to be real close.
Yes.
to get those cryos powered.
Did you say the fan in O - in H2 tank 1, or both of them?
Both of them.
Jim?
Well, my understanding of what he said was...
Maybe tape recorder...
Yes, that - that's kind of the way I heard it, both H2 tanks
Right, yes, that I got.
That's right.
Then I thought he said turn on the fan in tank 2 -
That's what I thought.
after I...
By cycling H2 tank heaters or fans as required.
Right. To get it down. Okay..
And - to keep it above 190. He said keep it between 190 and 200 by cycling the fans and heaters as required. Then he said for the night, leave it on.
No. Put on H2 tank 2 fans.
I didn't hear anything about that, Jim...
See is going to make it go up, Dave.
It's going to fall down with the fans and heaters off; now what's going to make it go up?
be a failure...
That's right.
leave them alone after we go to bed...
Yes. You see right before that, he said - What he said was cut out.
Are the fans and heaters off now?
Yes. With the fans and heaters off, we're going to drop down. Well, that S-band kept dropping in and out..
Well, I don't think tank 2 is going to come down to 200. We're going to have to purge to get it down. It's been holding. It holds steady at 220.
We'll. Now, we're back to the right again.
Perhaps we did roll to the right.
Well, I'm just looking out the window; I can't figure out how we could have missed, but I guess, if the needles say it, it's true. If the Earth - I was looking south before, Jim, when we were coming up on that pass and then the Earth disappeared out of my -
Me, too.
Well, I guess I had it upside down. What else are we doing, anything?
No. Hey, here comes Guaymas.
Oh, shoot,.
What the devil was that?
Jim.
Huh?
know you could see it. lights out there.
Oh? Yes. Did you see it? What the hell are the...
I'll be darned if I know. They're up in the sky?
No, no, they're below the horizon. fire.
they're fire?
Yes.
They look awfully red.
Red.
It's really something how they don't look like fi I don't know why. That one looks like two lights.
see any more of those.
That is a weird sensation.
cycle those fans before I got you were 19.4; and I was 19.5; you were 0.4; I was 0.5; you were.
Oh, that - that. Yes, yes..
The one at the time
Yes, but what was your time?
The final solution.
(Sneeze) Wow!
that DSE.
Where - Who - who cleaned out this? Where's the toothpaste? Anybody know?
Yes, I.
Toothpaste was hanging today. I didn't want it to get lost in that...
Look in here. Is it in there?
Yes.
Anybody else want to use the toothpaste right now?
I'll use it later.
Where do you want to store it? You want to keep it up there in yours, Jim, or what?
Yes, that's fine.
Hey, Dave, you got a problem.
Huh?
You got the flight plan?
Oh.
What time is that waste water dump? we get the for that.
Should be at 128 something - 128:50. Okay.. Now.
You know where the tape recorder is?
Yes.
Oh, in R-3. Yes. changed put on during the rendezvous yesterday. I don't even remember what they were. We didn't have time to write them down and I was going to do more and then I didn't even have time to do that.
That's probably a good idea.
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive.
Hi, Houston; Apollo 9.
Houston, Apollo 9.
What's the station again? That was never any good in Gemini. good in Apollo.
I never have heard Pretoria. How did Pretoria get in the flight plan?
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Roger. I have you.
Say, did you have anything between the discussion on the H2 and the -
powerdown? I think we might have missed something there if you had something.
9, Houston. Are we with you now?
Say again; you're broken.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Roger. I missed your...
answer. You are coming through loud and clear now. Did you have anything that you gave us between the discussion of the H2 and the powerdown?
The only thing on - discussion on the H2, I said that if, for some reason, you can't get it down to 200 psi before you retire, you can go ahead and do a fuel cell purge to decrease the pressure.
Roger. I caught that and...
The next thing I heard was to - the powerdown. You ordered me to stand by and that sort of thing, and I thought maybe you said something in between.
Negative.
Ask him if it's okay to purge...
Okay. If you say it is all right to purge number 2.
Oh, fuel cell.
Yes.
Stand by.
Okay. In other words, can we purge all three fuel cells?
Hey, Dave, and said that earlier, Jim,. Ask him how he wants the cryos left overnight.
Apollo 9, Houston. You can purge all three, if necessary.
Okay. And then overnight, do you want us to leave the fans on Auto or Off on the cryos?
One tank or two?
On the cryos we want the H2 tank 2 fan on.
Roger. Understand. H2 tank 2 fan on.
Roger.
Oh. Thank you.
And I have - We have no site coverage for REV 83, and I have the ARIA AOS - LOS times in case you want to call us. Over.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. ARIA 6 130, plus 42 to 130, plus 53. ARIA 2 131, plus 35 to 131, plus 44. Over.
Roger. ARIA 6 130 42 to 130 53: ARIA 2 131 35 through 131 44.
9, Houston. Affirmative.
Apollo 9, Houston. About LOS. Stand by for block data at Hawaii, and I will also give you a consumables update at Hawaii.
Roger. Understand. Block data and consumables at Hawaii.
We probably ought to have a powerdown along about then?
Yes.
Oh, boy, it's a little bit warm, isn't it?
Where was that from, the Redstone?
Tananarive.
Oh.
So we have a long way to Hawaii.
Does anybody happen to know where that BIOMED stuff is?.
Yes, it's in the medical kit...
the medical kit.
Hurry up and get it.
Huh?
over there.
Wonder what.
Oop, excuse me.
I think you might have got me.
What were you taking a picture of?
Sunrise through that hatch window.
Sunrise through the number 2 window.
It's even better now. There's some light. Do you have any over there, Rusty?
Yes.
Yes, it does.
Take it off and see.
Is it broken?
Looks like it..
Screwed up any pictures yet?
Oh. Is this wide angle? Whatever.
Aah.
That's right..
They may as well be there open or closed. Did it that time. The first two times - That's why I wondered when I took it off, I just heard it go click, but I didn't hear it go click-click. Heard click, but didn't go back click.
Very good.
A quarter of a second.
I just heard it.
Click?
Click-click. It's getting a little higher than I figured.
That magazine doesn't fit on the other one, does it?
Yes.
It does? Click-click. Quarter of a second..
Click-click. That's not bad. Click-click.
That sounds about right.
Yes.
You know what I think we ought to do with that? We ought to stow that thing and let them look at it and decide...
Oh, yes, what the timing really is.
Yes, because I decided on about six different ones, and it looks like it's about - it looks like they're all different, but it looks like there are about four or five supposed to be - each one.
Yes. They could adjust the maybe...
Maybe - if they were consistent. Depending on when it happened.
I think you're right. We ought to stow that away somewhere.
Yes, sure do.
all it was going to be was a simple little change of package.
No, I think. Is that it, Dave?
Trouble is you know they take part of that film and process it. They just. One frame out of the middle - one frame out of the middle to check it.
You mean I'm going to play doctor for myself.
You want some help?
No, it's just the thought of me playing doctor.
It bothers me a little, too (laughter).
I bet they get a big kick out of having you do that. Oh, heck, Dave, at least you don't have to draw your own blood (laughter).
Boy, there's a squall line down there that's a classic example of a squall line. Really.
I'm afraid I.
See it? See that line of thunderstorms?
No, look out through your hatch window.
Where did it go?
Shoot, I don't see it now. I lost it. Yes, way out that way; way in back (laughter).
Boy, this is falling apart.
Gosh.
Careful when you wash it off there; you're liable to get it really lost.
We're going to cross Vietnam this time. going across Vietnam, fellows.
Hey, should we turn on C?
Huh? Do what?
If you'd like to.
U6 on the base to pilot.
There you go something "on the base to pilot.
TEMP is 709; winds 320 degrees at 4; cleared to land.
320 at 4; clear landing.
Houston, Apollo 9 through Hawaii.
Hello, Hawaii. Apollo 9.
Roger. Loud and clear. On that H2 purge, if it is necessary, and if you haven't already done it, we had just as soon do it on fuel cell 2 only.
Oh, you would like to do it on fuel cell 2 only. Okay. Very good. It looks like we are still going to have to do it, Ron. We are still running about 215 in tank number 2.
Roger. We copy.
Okay. We will do it all on fuel cell 2.
Okay. And your consumables downdate - downlink plus dosimeter readings, when you get a chance, and then I'll have the block data whenever you are ready to copy.
Okay. Why don't you go ahead with the block data, Ron, and we are getting the other data in the meanwhile.
Okay. Block data: 083 Charlie Charlie, plus 302, plus 1480 131 08 49 3592; 084 Charlie Charlie, plus 260, plus 1380 132 4027 3592; 085 Charlie Charlie, minus 245, minus 1610 134 32 19 3592; 086 Alpha Charlie, plus 031, minus 0280 135 05 33 3592; 087 Alpha Charlie, plus 156, minus 0320 136 40 09 3592; 088 2 Alpha, plus 275, minus 0300 138 15 36 3592; 089 2 Bravo, plus 329, minus 0300 139 49 30 3592; 090 1 Bravo, plus 303, minus 0660 141 14 42 3592; pitch, minus 0.89: yaw, minus 1.15. Over.
Okay. How much more time do we have, Ron?
Roger. Still have about 2 minutes.
Okay. You want the systems data first or the readback?
No. Let's get the systems data.
Okay. Service module A is 54, B 62, 52, and 55 on Delta.
Roger. Fifty -
Okay. And Batt C is 36.9, pyro A is 371, B 371.
Roger. Copy.
Okay. All of the command module RCS injector temps are Off SCALE HIGH, except 6 Charlie, which was 4.7.
Roger.
Okay. What do we start with on that block data?
Start from 083. Let's hold off on that; I've got little DSE thing I would like to get to you.
Okay.
On this DSE voice playback - It has a lot of background noise on it. However, the voice seems to be okay.. When you are transmitting to us over a station, but it kind of fades away to unreadable when you are just talking between stations. So, it looks like, if you want to record any data on the DSE, you must talk directly into the mike and in a loud and clear voice. What I would like to do is after Redstone LOS, give us a test count or something like that, and we will play it back and see if it is anygood and let you know in the morning.
Roger. Understand you want us to give you a test count on the DSE sometime when we are not over a station. Do you have any particular time you want it for a dump or what?
Affirmative. Just after Redstone LOS. It will be about 128 plus 45 or somewhere in there.
Okay. Understand 125 plus 45 you want us to give a test count on the DSE and see how that works out.
Roger.
Okay. Okay. Do you want the readback?
Roger. Go ahead and readback.
Okay. 083 Charlie Charlie, plus 302, plus 1480 131 08 49 3592; 084 Charlie Charlie, plus 260, plus 1380 132 40 27 3592; 085 Charlie Charlie, minus 245, minus 1610 134 32 19 3592; 086 Alpha Charlie, plus 031, minus 0280 135 05 33 3592; 087 Alpha Charlie, plus 156, minus 0320 136 40 09 3592; 088 2 Alpha, plus 275, minus 0300 138 15 36 3592; 089 2 Bravo, plus 329, minus 0300 139 49 30 3592; 090 1 Bravo, plus 303, minus 0660 141 14 42 3592; pitch, minus 0.89, yaw, minus 1.15.
Apollo 9, Houston. Your readback is correct. A couple of items. We would like for you to terminate Batt A charge just prior to retiring. Also, put inverter 3 on MAIN A.
Roger. Terminate battery charge just before retiring and put inverter 3 on MAIN A.
Roger.
And I guess we need to verify the CO2 canister change and also that you are going to perform a waste water dump.
Roger. Will verify this time the canister change, and we will be dumping waste water before retiring.
Roger. And, 9, Houston. We show your downlinking both SIPMPLEX Alpha, and Bravo, so it's just SIMPLEX Alpha for the night, I guess.
Roger. We're listening to the tower over Guam, or Vietnam, or wherever it is.
Okay.
9, Houston. We could use the PR - the dosimeter readings if they are available. Also, to give you warm feeling, I can give you a consumable update.
Okay. We're ready. We always want a warm feeling. Let's get out the PAD.
Okay. GET...
Wait a second. Wait a second.
Okay. Hold on.
Let us get out the PAD first.
Roger.
Hey, are Al or Dick or Pete there?
Not right now. I can pass it on to them.
No. Just tell them I said hello.
Will do. They will be in again tomorrow.
Okay. Ready to copy.
Okay. GET 127 44 13 50 16 48 17 47 17 392 30 26 26 39, and just jot down now your service module RCS. DAP redlines are good tonight. A, 29 percent; Bravo, 37; Charlie, 39; Delta, 39.
Okay, Ron. Let me get the second line there. System A - service module RCS to A PU.
Roger. 44 percent PU, 13 percent hybrid DAP.
Okay. Here we go. 127 44 13 50 16 48 17 47 17 392 30 26 26 39, and then the redlines 29, 37, 39, 39.
Dosimeter readout.
Roger. Dosimeter readout. We got it all.
Want to tell him we'll get them later?
Ron, we'll have to do those dosimeters later. Would you call us at the next station and we'll pick them up?
We ought to get those things out and tape them on the wall somewhere.
Are you in the process of dumping things, there? for Scott? Would you get -
Okay.
(Laughter) That was a big one.
Hey, what the hell's going on? started moving in a funny direction. Well, I'm looking at a couple of them way out there, and they're going - Yes, that's what I was wondering. I - I got a -
Isn't that weird! Look at those - look at those - they're both going like hell. You're right - they're coming back this way.
Hey, you know what we're doing, Jim? We're looking ahead in orbit out there, at least I - I'm looking - I think almost down the orbit path; those damn things are coming back.
Yes, one of them came shooting right back past the right side of the spacecraft.
You - you're not on the intercom now, Jim.
They must have tremendous rotational velocity.
Yes, they really do, they spin like mad, don't they? And they're also plastering your window.
They must cling to the edge of the drain, and the - the bending moment must get too high or something huh?
Ho, I mean, why they go - why do they go out and then turn...
Oh, yes.
difference in the direction.
Maybe they - Do they close? Have you ever seen one actually turn or have you just seen it after it turns?
I've seen it after it turns...
Yes, so have I.
watch - watching a couple of them turn.
There's a tremendous velocity. Unusual.
Now here's one, sits right out in front of the spacecraft; it's spinning like mad, and now it's coming back.
Here comes three more.
If you could use your energy in the spacecraft, die.
Yes, that's right; it really is.
Holy smokes! Just look at that one I (Laughter)
That big piece?
(Laughter) If you ever got hit hy one that size it'd kill you.
Yes. What, Dave? What?
Jim, can you see this one right here?
What did you say?
Yes. Is that one off? I've missed it
Yes..
Did you get that one that vent across in front of -
Yes. Wait a second - Dave, be very careful of those cracking, because that may come in two pieces there.
Yes.
But if you tighten it down too tight. If you started off with that one, unscrewed, you might not he able to get that off.
That's when the and give it a little squeeze.
Yes.
That came across in front of my window; came all the way around the side and went out the hack.
(Laughter) the curve; I saw one that I swear was.
There it goes, the big show has started.
Look at those big ones. Wow!
Yes. Here they come.
You know, I bet, if you'd let it dribble out real slow, you'd really get big ones.
Here comes one back at us. BoingI It bounced off the front of the spacecraft.
Not coming very fast, is it, Dave? Look, there's one right there that actually - I can see it.
I know, I - One just turned around and came back and hit the spacecraft, that I was watching. Here comes another one.
Well, I saw this one curve and ricochet and go back under the path..
Yes, man, I'm sitting here watching one - It turns right around - it made a U-turn - and it's coming back. Besides, it's going right "it's going from right to left across the front of your window.
And there's another one coming right now. Yoow!
I hope it's gone down. Hey, you have the waste water tank servicing valve open. That's what happened.
There it goes. Whoohoo! Look at that show.
Fast one, wasn't he?
My God. (Laughter) They're traffic whizzes. Here comes Florida down there, Jim.
Yes.
And here comes one right back through the whole damned storm.
It has a lot higher velocity, too, doesn't it?
Yes.
Way out there, there's some of them that go 90 degrees to the -
Maybe couple of particles out there.
You know - The last downlink - cost me the last just before him.
Look out that window at the sunlight.
Yes.
Dave, get way down here and look out that window at the sunlight. Right into the Sun? You. Hey, I wonder if - Hey, Jim, what - what are our... doing? Can't they...
Pick up.
Toward the - The last few days - According to Don Riggs, anyway, they want to try to get us to dump our waste water over - over some - tracking site. Some - These big telescopes - I think they call them the survey-type telescopes - so that they can watch the dispersion of the particles to tell something about whether they're going to hang around the spacecraft or the.
Hey, I could stowage. This is really something. Check.
do that.
How could you see the, Jim?
Oh, I'd try the put it on.
Hey, I bet you put your right up against the window, you could probably see it even closer.
Yes, that that small.
Oh, you're all the way down to 49 percent.
Did you get them all, Dave?
No, I didn't get.
35.
29.
I guess we're really getting - 26 - 20 - hut, my God, it goes down like a rock when it gets to 30.
Go ahead and shut it off.
You know, it's amazing. It dribbles down there until it gets to 30, and then it goes mmwhomp.
They didn't give us any time to purge that fuel cell, did they?
Just before we go to bed.
What are you doing down there, Dave Scott?
pretty.
You got a date on the the other night? Son of a gun.
Yes,.
Going to change this homogenous atmosphere here to a positive cleanliness.
You know what I lost? I think I must have lost it during EVA. Can't see any other time I could have lost it. That's my tape.
Your tape. Oh, really?
hide.
Yes. came down off the peg.
Oh, you got the valve open. That's a good warning. You know, if that warning, you'd run yourself out of oxygen.
(Laughter)
I'll tell you, sure have the mike.
Yes, that's part cryo. Temperature control, isn't it?
Pressure.
Huh?
Yes, you do. Way up front here. Yes. Well, you guys are supposed to have one more than me. And I've got one on and one up there. You guys must have three. Hey, Jim. Are you guys down in fron of my - if you're right in front of my suit, could you get my dosimeter, right out of that pocket the -
Was there one in there?
Hey, we got 200 for the today. I think - 238 hours.
238?
There's a piece.
Whistle while you pee (singing).
Hey, Dave, thanks for the - calls on that - transmitting that thing.
Boy, I - That's really tough.
Yes, I know (laughter). Luckily, we had a good sensor. I said "Luckily, we had a good sensor.
You know, we ought to get that LM VOX.
With no A time, yes.
Hey, Dave, could you tell any difference between the antenna combination for that VHF test? I couldn't either. It sounded exactly the same whenever we did it, except - when you got to the rendezvous configuration - on the rendezvous, Dave. Boy, all of a sudden things got - garbled and I couldn't put - Yes. And I turned off my B receiver, and I turned off my DCR switch and all kinds of things, and I - I never could quite figure out why, but it seemed to get noisy when you went to that configuration. I never could figure it out.
Hey, Jim. Did your OPS work - check out okay on the - on the systems thing? What are we supposed to that problem? Do you remember? 2 days, I remember, but ~ That's right, we just take the pressure - that's right; you're right.
I'm wondering how we can get rid of some. Throw the hose.
Hey, Dave, you ought to take a crap that way. Repeat that old wives' tale about not spitting into the wind or something. Hey, Jim, what time are we supposed to make that COMM check? (Laughter) Yes; okay, I'll make it now and note the timing. 120 - 129 - Okay, COMM TECH, 1 2, 3, 4, 5; 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Or in at 110, 11,100, - 100, 11, 101. And the time is 129:29. Okay.
Presumably, that was a CRYO PRESS; now, well, I don't know. No, it was O2 FLOW HIGH. We dumping again?
Okay.
Hey, Jim, why don't you leave it open? It was - it was dumping quite a bit of stuff out. Yes. Right after you put that - the - valve back on the end there.
I guess it's done. Okay.
Okay. It's about done now. Oh, is that bright. Whoo!
Yes, you want it?
Yes, is that it?
Did - did you close the vent, Jim?
Yes, I guess so.
Huh!
You don't think that had anything to do with the EVA, huh? Oh, hell, you wouldn't know. You EVA on anyway. It's really funny. Right around your eyes, you don't have it. It's almost like you had a pair of goggles on and you were skiing or something, you know, and - yes. You look like a chipmunk or something. It feels like a sunburn though. Kind of warm and throbbing. Yes, it looks a little duller red. It's still real red, but it's - Hey, where the hell are we?
China?
Yes, that's got to be China. Oh, man, there are some really interesting mountains down there. It's a geosyncline - or something.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Houston. Go.
Roger. I got a couple of dosimeter readings for you.
Beautiful. You're making the doctor very happy.
Okay. It's great to make the guy that sticks needles in you happy. Jim is 31.14, and mine is 80.14; that's 80.14, and Dave's is kind of stuck away somewhere. We'll try to pick that up again tomorrow.
Roger.
Dave is in the process of contributing to medical science in a different fashion here.
Okay. Understand. When you take your battery charger off the line, note the time on it and give it to us tomorrow.
Okay. Tell you what, we're just about to sack out; why don't I just take it off right now.
Affirmative. You can go ahead.
Okay. How about a 3, 2, 1.
MARK.
We got it.
Okay. And I'm just about to purge fuel cell 2. Hydrogen 2.
Roger.
There you go.
Apollo 9, Houston. About a minute and a half to LOS. We'd like to have the inverter 3 on MAIN A over the site here, if possible.
Say that one again, Ron.
Roger. Request inverter 3 on MAIN A.
Okay. 3, 2, 1.
MARK
Inverter 3 on MAIN A.
Roger. That's part of your sleep power configuration there.
Roger.
And, Houston, we got a message from the CMP; he says to tune in to his EKG next pass.
Will do. Very good.
9, Houston. Have a good night. We'll see you tomorrow.
Guten abend.
We'll take a on 190.
Oh, yes, we ought to cycle these. 3 minutes - the O2 fan.
Yes.
1, 2, 3, 5; 5, It, 3, 2, 1. Great..
Boy, that's a long purge on old fuel cell 2, 1 - tell you. Gees!
Did - did we ever power down the spacecraft?
Yes.
Oh, what? The configuration?
The regular power on that.
We're not turning off the BMAG's either?
What am I turning off? Oh, the O2 fan.
Oh, I was just trying to figure out what it - what it for.
Yes.
Boy, oh boy, that damn tank 2 won't come down.
Yes, and I don't want the damn thing waking me -
You want to let it purge some more?
(Laughter) 15 minutes I Yes!
Hey, are we supposed to purge O2 in the other -
Oh, Where's the - Hey, why don't you write down what time we did it, Dave? 130:20 - Okay?
Here you go.
Did you get it?
No, I haven't purged it.
Oh - Well, hell, I'll have to figure it out. Just a minute. It was at that Hawaii pass - I didn't - the time was about 01, so, it must have been about 18 minutes.
No, that - that time is all off, Dave. We get there about 130:01. It was about 18 minutes, I guess - 17 minutes.
Yes, we stopped that at the same time.
Yes.
Oh, okay. That's right.
Now we want to go to H2 tank to - fan, On. Man, I - I'll bet that thing is going to go booink.
Dave, you want to do exercises?
You want it out right now? Okay. I'll do it - I got a project. You want the bag? That's a good - that's a pretty good place for it, actually - so you don't knock your head on it.
Oh, where'd the tissues go, again?
I think there are two out, Jim, somewhere. Hey, what - what compartment are the towels in?
Are they wrapped up or something, Jim? Are they wrapped up in something?
Okay.
Yes, I got them. They were already out.
Oh, okay.
Okay. You want one of yours? You want one of yours? Okay. Okay.
Hey, Dave, the only configuring you have to do up there is turn that H2 fan on. T think all the rest of it is all done.
Okay. You want to sleep under the couch, Jim?
Tell y'all what. Why don't we? One way to make it last.
Boy, does that poor gas thing ~ Hey! We got to chlorinate this thing!
We got to chlorinate the damn thing tonight.
You ready for the headset, Jim?
Okay, I'm on - I'm signaling through. Ooh.
9, Houston. Have a good night. we'll see you tomorrow.
Guten nahen.
Should have a good pass; we'll see you tomorrow.
Hey, have a good night; see you tomorrow.
