Roger; Mercury in 5.
Why don't I get up?
Huh?
it right there.
Apollo 9, Houston.
You know one thing that - I'd never gotten the EVA with all that for depressant and repressant and opening and closing that damn those gloves are right over here.
Hello. Houston, Apollo 9.
Oh, good morning. The alarm clock has just gone off.
I can tell.
Hello, alarm clock.
Tick-tock!
How's everything down there in Houston today?
Oh, real fine. Good - looks like you are all sleeping pretty good.
Yes, we sure are.
Guess I'd ought to use past tense on that now.
Okay. You're over Carnarvon - Just coming into the sunset here. Guess just a little better timing - We'd gotten you up at sunrise, but we let you sleep a little bit extra here.
We'll take it.
Okay.
No snap, but we don't have any complaints.
Hey, Houston, 9.
Go ahead, 9.
We got one little item for you. Last night we were shifting cabin fans - It was a little warm in here, and we had cabin fan 2 On; we turned it off, turned 1 on, and it did not come on. It was hot to the touch, so we turned it off and pulled the circuit breakers.
Okay. Copy. Understand. That's cabin fan 1.
That's affirm. And 2 is still working okay.
Okay.
And we noticed the suit cabin temps were running a little higher yesterday than they had been previously, and wonder what you all thought about it on the ground.
Okay. Copy. Stand by.
Hot mike.
Apollo 9, Houston. About 1 minute LOS Carnarvon. We'll have you over Honeysuckle in about a minute - minute and a half. Bring up your S-band volume. We can turn off the fan in H2 tank 1 now and turn off inverter 3.
Okay. H2 tank 1 fan coming off now, and inverter 3 coming off.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. We've got you through Honeysuckle now for about another 6 minutes.
Roger, Houston. You're very, very weak.
Roger. I think it was just the start of the lockup; how now, Dave?
That's very nice.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. About 1 minute LOS Honeysuckle. We'll see you at Mercury in about 5 minutes.
Okay. Mercury in 5.
Roger. Mercury in 5.
Roger. Copy.
(Yawn) Oh, boy.
Good. Everybody gets one and somebody gets two.
Well, I got one, thank you. How about you?
No, thanks, Rusty.
These boxes are really something. Hmm, there's not - nothing in it.
Got the other in that box.
Hey, Jim, remember when we were talking about that in the EVA thing?
Yes.
Do you know what time I said that would be? we talked about that.
I was a little surprised you were that early, to tell you the truth. I sort of
And, Apollo 9, Houston. We have you through Mercury, about 7 minutes.
You want to get the block data and stuff done?
Roger. I'm standing by. I have block data, I have consumables, and I have flight plan update. Just let me know when you're ready.
Okay. I got the consumables here; why don't hit that one first?
Okay. The hour on this one is 162. Starting: 43 12 47 15 48 16 47 16 327 24 36 29 39. End of update.
Roger. 162 43 12 47 15 48 16 47 16 327 24 36 29 39. And I wonder if we could have SM RCS DAP redline, too, please?
Roger. Reading: quad A, 28 36 38 38.
Okay. 28 36 38 38.
That is affirmative.
Okay. Go ahead with the block data.
Okay. Reading block data number 17: 105 2 Bravo, plus 332, minus 0290 164 54 02 2844; 106 2 Alpha, plus 288, minus 0300 166 27 38 2844; 107 Alpha Charlie, plus 211, minus 0340 168 01 03 2844; 108 1 Alpha, plus 263, minus 0680 169 26 08 2844; 109 4 Charlie, plus 334, minus 1590 172 18 34 3831; 110 4 Bravo, plus 328, minus 1609 173 56 15 383l. Okay. Your pitch and yaw trims for Revs 105 through 108: your pitch trim, minus 0.88; yaw, minus 1.09. For Revs 109 and 110: pitch, minus 0.88; yaw, minus 1.40. End of update.
Roger. Coming back. 105 2 Bravo, plus 332, minus 0290 164 54 02 2844; 106 2 Alpha, plus 288, minus 0300 166 27 38 2844; 107 Alpha Charlie, plus 211, minus 0340 168 01 03 2844; 108 1 Alpha, plus 263, minus 0680 169 26 08 2844; 109 4 Charlie, plus 334, minus 1590 172 18 34 3831; 110 4 Bravo, plus 328, minus 1609 173 56 15 3831. And the pitch and yaw trim per Revs 105 through 108: pitch, minus 0.88; yaw, minus 1.09. For Revs 109 and 110: pitch, minus 0.88; yaw, minus 1.40.
Roger. Houston confirms the update. We'll see you at Texas around 58. We'd like to remind you of the O2 purge and CO2 filter change.
Okay. O2 purge and CO2 filter change, and 52 for Texas.
That's affirm.
Oh, yes. Supposed to do
You know what - what really bugs me is that you usually spend so much time every one we did
New window shades? that?
There used to be little things that would latch over the sides, sort of -
Yes, they really are.
Where is it?
Hey, did you log in the exercises? You ought to try to log it in
find the numbers. Those numbers Well, why don't we just go back to giving the - put down the days?
No way. I don't want my water out of the bag.
16 to B; 14 to A-4. So, the one you took out was 14. Want a piece of tape?
Yes.
The one you just used is 14, Take one out of A-4 and put it B.
Hey, how's the CO2 for a change? Isn't it 2.2?
Apollo 9, this is Houston. Got you through Texas now, showing you just coming up on the coast of lower Mexico. I have a flight plan update for you.
Okay. Stand by one.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. We're ready. Go ahead.
Okay. The first change will be at the hours 170 plus 20. We want to add a P52 alignment to Nominal, and your time for that Nominal alignment - T-align: 170 plus 48 plus 00. Your next item will be another P52, and the hour will be 171 plus 45. I'd like to add another P52 to Nominal. Your T-align time: 172 plus 19 plus 00. Okay. We might be rushing you on this rev, but we've got a target of opportunity we'd like to have photographed over Africa and - This is if you can get to it. The time of this is 165 plus 25 plus 33, and we'd like to have the target of the countries of Niger and Chad. And the time I gave you will be the first frame. We'd like to have 10 pictures, 6 seconds apart, shooting 30 degrees south of the nadir.
Okay. Are you with me? I've got three more items.
Okay. We're with you. Go ahead.
Okay. At hours 172 plus 28 we're going to do some Comm checks with an ARIA. This will be both S-band and VHF. So, we'd like to have S-band volumes up, and another Comm check with the ARIA at 174 plus 06.
Okay. We got those.
Okay. And the last one is at 174 plus 55: delete the battery B charge and add waste water dump.
Okay. You want me to read it back now?
That's affirmative. That's the end of it.
Okay. 170 20, a P52 to Nominal, T-align time, 1704800. 171 45 P52 to Nominal, 172 19 00 for T-align. 165 25 33, targets of opportunity. We go, that and I think we will be able to make that okay. Niger and Chad, 10 frames, 6-second intervals, 30 degrees south of the nadir. And 172 28, Comm checks with ARIA - S-band and VHF, and one Comm check at 174 06.
That is affirmative, and 174 plus 55, delete the Battery B charge; add waste water dump.
Oh, yes. We got that one, too.
Okay. That's the flight plan updates as of now.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. I'm just standing by here with a map update. I'd like to give it to you before you have to ask for it.
Go ahead.
Okay. REV 104, which you are on now: 164 51 05; longitude, 124.5 west. And if you want to use your star chart, right Ascension, 15 plus 45.
Okay. REV 104: 164 51 05; longitude, 124.5 west; right Ascension, 15 plus 45.
That is affirmative.
Thank you.
Roger.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. Any time at your convenience we'll take a crew status report.
Okay. This is the Commander. I had about 9 hours sleep last night. I took an Actifed and a vitamin pill yesterday.
This is the CMP. I had about 9 hours sleep last night and had a vitamin pill yesterday.
Okay. And Rusty had one vitamin pill and 8½ hours of sleep.
Okay. I copy those. Thank you.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Apollo 9, Houston through Canaries.
Roger. Houston, 9. You're five-by.
Roger. We would like to recommend the following RCS configurations for today.
Houston, Apollo 9. You are five-by.
Roger, Apollo 9. Do you read Houston?
I'd like to give you the RCS configuration.
Roger. Go ahead.
Okay. We would like - Today we would like to use quads Baker and Charlie, and use for roll Baker Delta - roll - and on SPS-7, we are recommending Baker and Delta, ullage.
Seven: use Baker Delta for the ullage.
You cut out on the first part of the readback. Use quad Baker and Charlie, BD roll, and BD ullage.
Roger. Baker and Charlie, BD roll, and BD ullage.
Roger. Thank you, Dave.
Roger.
That's very characteristic of stuff.
Yes, sure is.
Look at those dunes.
Apollo 9, Houston. Thirty seconds LOS. We will see you at Carnarvon at 51.
Roger. Carnarvon at 51.
Does that one look like it's going to be any good, Rusty?
This one looks like it's alright. Going to be an oblique.
Well, they want it 30 degrees south of the nadir. You got a south look there? Yes, you do, don't you?
Yes.
Man, look at that geology there.
Yes, isn't that something? Whoo! How would you like to be on a camel down there?
No thanks.
(Laughter)
Boy, it's funny how that desert changes, from that red-beauty stuff to this white nothing.
Yes.
You know, I'm not sure we're going to get it.
Really?
See out backwards pretty good?
Yes, but I can't see back up towards the horizon enough, I don't think. It depends on how far north of it we go. Can I turn down my S-band volume a little, Dave?
Yes.
That's good. How's the time?
minutes.
Okay. Not yet from here.
I think just about. Here, let me have the camera. We're getting some pretty interesting things.
Oh, yes,
Yes, there's a lot - Look at that - that's a big cinder cone field. Okay, now.
Oh, okay. Are we on?
I'll tell you what; how is the time coming?
Okay, 24:22 and they want 10 frames at 6-second intervals. At 25:33. do that?
Yes, why - why don't you just give me a hack?
Yes, I will. And they want 30 degrees south of the nadir.
Okay.
I'll give you a mark. It'll be about a minute.
Okay.
wasn't it?
Yes, it may not - it may not be too bad.
30 degrees. It looks like we're rolling a little left, there.
Yes.
Okay, here we go. Ready?
Okay, all set.
Number 1 coming up.
Mark.
Nothing but a cloud, but -
Okay, number 2 coming up.
Mark.
Number 3 coming up.
Mark.
Number 4 coming up.
Mark.
That's not going to do it, Dave. There's nothing down there. Not a damn thing.
Oh, really?
No, just - just peaks of sand, and there's absolutely nothing on them. It's not even - they don't even have a mark on them.
You think they missed their time, Rusty?
Yes, I think they might have. I think we're looking north of the problem.
Too bad about that.
Yes, we're looking north.
I thought we were looking - You were almost looking...
No, I can see the horizon up there, see?
Too bad.
Yes.
Maybe we roll here.
Okay, Dave, that was - I guess I took four pictures total. Oh, no, five total.
That's six total, and that was through 134, so it must have been 128 - 9 - 30 - 1 - 2 - 3 - 4. 129 through 134.
All you saw was dunes?
Not even dunes, just flat white sand. No, it was obviously nothing.
Yes.
I took a couple while the clouds were there; you know, there were holes in the clouds; thinking there might be something under them, but, hell, when the clouds dropped, it was obvious there wasn't anything there.
We are posigrade again this morning. I think we've been posigrade every morning.
Yes. I think so.
Have to do that one, too. once in a while I kept waking up last night thinking "My God, "
You did?
Yes.
No, it's the one on the right, David.
Hey, our clock's jammed.
Hey, you got to go out past 1 before it'll ding, Dave.
No, it won't.
Right!
No, I don't want to
Hey, listen, if he sees any
Yes, I'm sure.
What else you want?
It doesn't appear to be up on this end.
I saw it floating past
I tell you what, let me get my hose to the right side of - of the strut.
166:10. We've got another 45 minutes. How about, let's see, out the window?
Well.
You got one - Jim, they're both right there in front of you. There's one there.
Huh?
Which one do you want? Did you get them? Oh, huh?
Rusty, you're putting them in there too fast.
Oh, I - I thought that was...
No, no, this is Here you are. Even got a red spot on it.
By
Under your head.
For the first few minutes, then after a while - Yes. Yes, the first few minutes of it were really good. Boy, I - It tasted great.
Recommended highly.
Dave, I think I'd trade you a hot cocoa for a grape punch.
you've got a deal.
If you got one.
I'm not sure I have. I eat the same breakfast you do.
Yes, there is a grape punch in there.
There is?
No, there's not. In fact - in fact, I think I might try the hot cocoa here again. Yes, I like it now. I found that my taste changes day to day.
I don't know.
Yes, you did.
Yes, you did. Which way is it?
Down
Down and
Wonder why it's so after I turn it off like -
It may - may be - It must build up -
Yes.
Purple eye.
It's really good.
Hello, there. Do you hear?
Yes, sir.
Good.
Guess what, David. When your face feels better, breathe less skin. Besides that, we like you to look good.
Right. You got to be handsome.
Right. None of this recovering looking like that - We got to stay up here 2 more days just so that we can look good when we eat that 350-pound cake. Right after that, three 8-foot-tall redheads.
You knew, I think we've probably logged more sleep time than the other flights all put together. The - the one thing that we've got more of...
Yes, it's worked out very well. It really has.
Anytime you guys want me to take the watch, let me know. Gees, I kind of feel like - like I'm cheat going under there in luxury class.
I think works fine. What do you think, Dave?
Well, hell, you keep getting waked up though, don't you?
No, not that often.
No?
No, I just, whenever I wake up, I glance around the gages and just see what they look like.
I see you doing it - I see you doing it, too. I just look around, and I just go back to sleep, and I hear click-clock over there, and I look - (laughter) turning on all those lights.
Apollo 9, Houston. Get you through Carnarvon. Standing by.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 9.
How's the weather in Houston today?
It's a little chilly. It's been sunshiny the last couple of days, but it's pretty chilly. It may start turning a little cloudy this afternoon, they're saying.
Okay.
Hey, Stu, this is Rusty.
Yes, go ahead, Rusty.
How about giving the Frau a call and saying good morning to her for me?
Okay. I'll do that for all three of you.
Mine, this is.
Say, there's some bit about this SPS burn, that we'll be talking to you probably in more detail, but I'd like to start on now if you have time to listen for a couple of minutes.
Okay. Do we have to write anything down?
No, I don't think so. Just sort of le me summarize a few thing here.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. On this burn we are going to try to get a better hack at this - at the PUGS system. We've analyzed the data and we really - We really think we understand most of volume the funnies. So to get data on a burn where we are using ullage, we've increased the length of this burn. The burn time is going to be about 25 seconds, and we're going to use the PUGS on it. We're going to use it in the Primary mode, and don't switch. You may get caution and warning lights after about 5 seconds when it comes on, and there's a definite procedure here we want to use for the PUGS. It's about three steps, which I would want you to write down later on, but I just wanted to pass this on to you so you can be thinking about it.
Okay. So you're going to make the burn 25 seconds longer. Do we have that much fuel left?
Roger. That's supposed to be the plan. We can get you the specific details on it, Jim.
Okay. Don't forget we have one more after this.
Doggone! I knew we were forgetting something.
I figured you guys left out one step, just the Retro burn, huh?
Yes; that's it.
Okay. Why don't you give me a hack at how much fuel I have left?
Okay. You have 68 seconds of burn time left and we are going to take about 25 of those.
I blocked you out; say again how many seconds left?
You have 68 seconds left and we are going to use 25 of those.
Okay.
And your deorbit burn is shaping up to be about 12 seconds.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, this is Houston. Just for tank management here, we would like to turn the heater off in O2 tank 1. Leave the heater in tank 2 in Auto.
Okay. The heater on O2 tank 1 is going off at this time, and we leave the heater in O2 tank 2 in Auto.
Okay. Very good; thank you.
What's our resulting orbit going to be when we finish up our 25-second burn here?
Just a second, here. I took a hard copy of this thing a minute ago, but I can't read it. Stand by one here.
Still going to be about 200 by 95 or so.
Roger. It's going to be 250 by 98.
Very good; 250 by 98.
And, Apollo 9, we'll have you at Honeysuckle in about a minute, if you will bring up your S-band volume up at that time.
Okay. Very good. We'll come up on S-band.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. We should have you through Honeysuckle.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. We've got you locked up on Honeysuckle about 5½ minutes.
Roger.
Hey, Stu, were, you the fellow who told us about the big cake on the Guadalcanal?
Yes, I mentioned that.
Well, ever since you mentioned it, Rusty and Dave haven't stopped talking about it.
I sure am sorry about that. Maybe we better send a TWX out there and have them make that a 700 pounder.
What's the weather forecast for the recovery area at recovery time?
Jim, I hate to bring that up. I was going to wait until you asked. We got a look at that this morning, and - course it's a long range forecast on how fast this front moves through, but they are calling right at your prime site for fairly heavy winds - Yes, around 30 knots or so, and waves around 6 to 8 feet. Now, that's the first cut right now. We're starting to get - And we'll make sure the weather is good, though. I don't think we'll plunk you down in the middle of a front, there.
Okay.
Stu, you keep putting the drama back into it.
Well, you know, you've had too easy a time here. We've got to keep jacking you up a little.
I've noticed that.
But you know, Jim, it sure is lucky you weren't landing out in there either, yesterday. I don't know how it is this morning, but all day yesterday and last night I guess the waves of - having 10 to 12 foot swells out in that area.
Yes. When we were flying - When we've been across the Atlantic, there, it looked like it's been pretty rough down there. You could see the white caps from up where we are.
Yes. It's really been kicking up. Somebody was telling me the winds around Bermuda this morning were running 60 knots.
Oh, great!
Yes, in fact we're not even using Bermuda because the winds are blowing so hard it's hard to get a lock on you.
It blows those radio waves right out of the way, huh?
Roger.
Hey, Jim, I still got you for about another minute, I think. Instead of having to depend on the forecast, you're the best weather RECON we got, we'll just let you pick out your own area.
You still there, Stu?
Yes. I'm still here.
We'll see you over Mercury at 11.
You still there, Stu?
By-by.
And that, dear sir, was the end of Mr. Stuart. Mr. Stuart
How are your ears, Jim?
Okay.
Yes. Did you take an Actifed last night?
No, I took one yesterday afternoon.
Yes - I...
Dave, you're looking a lot better. You're looking much better.
my pill.
Oh, yes.
vitamin pill.
Your vitamin pills, too. Get out the vitamin pills!
I think I only have one and one, Dave. What did I the day before? Let's look there. Thank you.
Yes, we even got into the redundant vitamin pills, huh?
I've been having some cinnamon-toasted bread cubes.
(Laughter) Yes, why don't you do that? I figure there must be some food value in there that's not in those other ones.
Man, that's a lot of chocolate. I said, "That's a lot of chocolate."
hot chocolate?
Yes. Too much for me.
Grape punch.
That's what they call me - Honest Rusty. Hard bargain for a good deal. picking up...
Apollo 9, Houston. We've got you through the Mercury now, and how much time you think you'll have on this rev for some pictures?
Quite a bit. We're just eating; we're just finishing up eating and we'll be powering up the spacecraft here in a few minutes.
Okay.
Give us the updates, Stu. If we get them, fine; if we don't, that's too bad.
Okay. Let's just take them in order here, then. The first one we would like you to have would be the Corpus Christi area, and I can give you a time on that. It's 33 plus 33. It's on this rev. We would like to have three shots at 6-second intervals and you should be shooting right on the nadir on this one. I think you go right over it.
Okay.
Okay. And we would like to have you shoot Galveston, and that will be at 34 plus 05. Like to have three shots, 8-second interval, and you will be shooting 30 degrees north of the nadir.
Stu, how far north of the nadir was that?
30 degrees, it says.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay. I've got a couple more. On this one, the Mississippi Delta. That will be at 35 plus 17. We would like to have three shots, 8-second interval, and you will be shooting 30 degrees south of the nadir.
And another one will be Mobile, Alabama, at 35 plus 43. Like you to take three shots, 8-second interval, shooting 20 degrees north. And the last one I have for you now will be on this rev on - coming across Africa, starting at 52 plus 00. Like to have you use the 16mm, 75mm lens, shoot it at six frames a second, using CEX 368. We would just like to have you take a strip all the way across the continent.
Okay. We will just take a strip across the continent.
Roger. And one other thing. I would like to have some 16mm settings with the 16mm camera, 75mm lens, same film as above - and this is just any daylight pass where you can see the sun glinting off the ocean. If you can find this, we would like to have about 5 minutes of film on that at six frames a second.
Okay.
And that will do it for now. We are about to lose Mercury. We will see you over Redstone about 23.
Okay.
Just a second, I can't hear you. What? Go ahead. S-band just cut off.
I said I was just getting ready to get the camera, and I got out your figuring out how I could rig that camera, so when we go over the States, you know, take pictures out the back.
Think we ought to up our ORB rate for that pass over Africa?
Well, we're not going to be ready, Dave. We're not going to have the platform up and aligned.
I think it would be worth a couple of squirts of fuel, though, don't you?
So do I.
Yes.
Good.
Yes, I think it would be, too. That ought to be a great picture.
Yes, sure should.
We ought to start through that powerup checklist now, so we can get these things going.
Okay. I'll - I'll read it to you. You ready?
Yes, let's go.
On the - powerup. CB panel 8. All normally Closed, normally Closed. I guess that implies all normally Open, normally Open.
Would you believe we still have the SPS Pitch and Yaw Closed?
Yes, let's just leave those Closed.
What SPS Pitch and Yaw? We were supposed to, Jim, weren't we?
Yes.
Did they say to close them again?
Yes.
Sure.
Well, the last time we asked them about that, they said, no, they'd like to - continue to leave them open after this burn.
The SPS Pitch and Yaw
Remember when we were fooling around with the before?
no
Jim, I think that was just while they were shooting that - remember that...
And then they got through, and I said - Remember they - We're going to do a burn - and we went back with the thing, and I said, "Do you want these thing left off, or do you want to put them in now?" And they said, "Well, we would like to have them off." Unless they called and specifically told you to close them after that.
I thought they did, but I could be wrong.
I don't know why you'd want them - why you'd want them now.
Neither do I.
Spacecraft Control, CMC.
CMC.
Delta-V, as required.
Logic 2/3, On, up.
2/3, On, up.
Signal Conditioner/Driver Bias Power, two, to AC 1.
AC 1, AC 2. What did I put that in?
SCS Electronic Power, GDC/ECA.
Okay. SCS Electronic Power to GDC/ECA.
BMAG Temp Light, two, Out; verify. FDAI Power, Off. BMAG Power, two, On.
Okay.
FDAI Power to Both.
Okay.
Auto RCS Select, 16, to wherever you want them.
Okay. Off.
Did you get the - You weren't on the horn when they gave us the plan the other day, were you?
I think they said B and C today, with B and D as ullage?
B and C. Use B, D for ullage B, D roll, - B, D roll, B, D ullage, and B, C.
Okay?
Just a second, let me write that down. B, C - let's see, B, C roll? B, D ul -
Okay?
Okay.
Rotational Control Power Normal, two, AC/DC.
Okay.
CMC is running, huh?
Is running, right. We got to bring up the DAP.
Okay, we're in P00, huh?
Right.
IMU.
Okay.
Logic Power 2/3, On.
Logic Power 2/3 is On.
Verify, FDAI Power to Both. FDAI Select to 1/2.
1/2.
CMC Mode to Free.
Free.
G&N IMU Power, On.
go back to nursemaiding that thing (laughter). Did you get that, Dave?
Are you ready?
Yes.
Okay, IMU Power coming On now. Hey, and I got
That mother really gets over there. God!
Reset. Okay, we don't need that. Wait 20 seconds - Okay, P00. Okay. Systems check, CMC self-check. You want to run one of those?
NO, I don't think so.
DSKY lamps check. Do you want to run one of those?
No.
DAP activation. You want to run one of those?
Yes.
Hey, we gave them an erasable dump last night, didn't we?
Yes.
Did you purge the fuel cells this morning, Dave?
Yes, I didn't write it down, of course. Yes, I purged them.
How about the cryo fans, Dave? Did you do them?
No, I haven't done them, Rusty.
Okay, I'll get them.
We don't have much nighttime left, Dave. As a matter of fact, we have about 2 minutes.
You don't think I can do a PS1 in 2 minutes?
No, as a matter of fact, I don't. I don't even think you can figure out how to make the shaft go around in 2 minutes.
Gee, I sure like your confidence.
(Laughter)
You're a nice guy.
You know what?
on what?
Hey, able to work up to a great big...
Yes, I was thinking the same thing.
(Laughter) I've been trying to count how many I had before. I think I only had two.
I was thinking
What, that you had two, or that you up to one? (Laughter) You had one; I had two.
Did you mark yours?
I may set a record. I wonder what the record is for not crapping?
I don't know.
I don't hold it (laughter). Hey, who - I wonder where this stuff came from.
Yes, you can recall two, I guess, if you want to.
Oh, yes, let's activate the DAP. the DAP.
It just says, "activate DAP."
Oh, okay. Verb 48, Enter
Verb 1
Apollo 9, Houston through the Redstone. We should have you for about the next 30 minutes here coming across.
Okay.
Hey, Rusty, you busy? I got a little news.
Go ahead, Stu.
Roger. Elin won first place in the science fair.
Fantastic. That kid's going to get a big head. That's two years in a row.
Yes; that's what I understand.
That's good. Tell her she's a good girl, for me, Stu.
Okay. Sure will.
And, Apollo 9, this is Houston. If you have got time as you come across us, you might give us the weather report - how it looks from weather RECON there.
Okay. I'll be your friendly weather man this morning.
All right. We'd appreciate that.
Houston, this is Apollo 9, now. We are just about to Corpus, and the weather doesn't look very good over in this area. It might be better up around Houston there.
Roger. Copy.
And, Apollo 9, this is Houston. Those pictures at Corpus and Galveston we would like regardless of the weather. They are also interested in the weather in those pictures.
Okay. We'll hurry then.
Okay, Houston. This is Apollo 9, now. We're coming across - We're in the vicinity of Corpus Christi now. The cloud deck is breaking up. I can look out into Texas which is north of our track here. We're right along the Gulf Coast. It's all pretty clear out there.
Okay. How does it look down to the south, Jim? Is there a storm down there moving up on us?
No, I didn't see. It just looked like a lot of high clouds.
Okay.
Yes. You call them.
Houston?
Go ahead. Apollo 9, Houston.
Roger. We're running across the East Coast now; you can look down into Florida. All of Florida is almost clear except just the tip end. There's a lot of snow along the East Coast. They must have had some pretty good snow storms up there recently, and it comes way down here to the south.
Roger. Copy.
now, and there's a definite break in the clouds right along the coast. Then as you get out into the Atlantic there's a lot of clouds, but they don't look to be very fierce, just a lot of low-to-middle clouds, it looks like. I don't see any big thunderstorms or anything that looks like major weather sticking out.
Okay. Copy. You know, the weather map of yesterday shows a pretty good front laying right out in the Atlantic there, and it was really kicking it up. Also, one way up to the north - I don't know how far up you can see, but there's a disturbance way up to the north that's causing some swells coming down as far south as off Florida, there.
Okay. Well, I can see that. Way up to the north it looks like there is some pretty significant weather.
Yes. That beauty is kicking off swells, and they are affecting all the way down in through - underneath your track down in there.
I'll be darned. Let's see if we can see the white caps on the water down here today.
Okay.
And, Jim, just to elaborate a little more on that weather briefing that we got on the recovery this morning - We are going to wait until tomorrow to see - get a better hack. You know, at this stage of the game, that was just the first prediction on that movement of the front.
Okay. And looking down here, I can see white caps on the ocean.
Okay. You can? Is that affirmative?
Affirmative. Yes, I can see white caps on the ocean.
Okay. And we'll give you a hack here when you're over the prime landing spot.
Yes. It really looks rough and windy down there, although there aren't many clouds - aren't too many clouds; it's about five- or six-tenths coverage.
Stu, how about getting those things moved out, okay
Okay. In work.
Thank you.
As a matter of fact, Houston, there's really a - Now that we get out over the ocean here, you can see the water pattern more. Up to the north of us must be the center of a great big thick low, and there's probably a front hanging down out of it, swirling off to the southwest and then around to the southeast. You can see the cloud pattern follows that cyclonic pattern all the way down here to where we are; must be, oh, I guess it's a thousand miles across this thing.
That's really a vivid description, Jim. It just matches the weather map here perfectly.
And, Apollo 9, the Vanguard is having 18-foot swells. We might have a little trouble with the Comm across there. If so, we'll pick you up at Canaries; we'll have Canaries ACQ around 49.
Apollo 9, Houston. Do you read?
Roger. We do; go ahead.
Roger. You have a Go for 122 dash 1, and you'll be coming over the Vanguard here. We're talking through the Vanguard now, and they are having 18-foot swells down there.
Oh, boy! You're making me seasick way up here, Stu.
Roger.
I'm sure glad we advanced to where the CapCom stays in Houston.
Yes, I'd hate to have you getting sick on us.
There you go.
They didn't give you the period of those swells, did they, Stu?
No, they sure didn't, Rusty. I bet we can find out, though.
And, Rusty, Houston here. The period on the swells is about 12 seconds.
Okay. That's lovely; a lot of energy in those.
Roger.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. I've got about six steps on this PUGS operation for this burn; and any time that you've something to write on and want me to cover them, I'll be glad to.
Stand by just a second, Stu.
Roger. No sweat; we've got all kinds of time.
Is that a body of water down there?
I was wondering the same thing; it sure looks like it...
I think it is. I'll take a picture of that. That's really something; I've never noticed anything like that before.
Apollo 9, Houston. Thirty seconds LOS Canaries; see you at Tananarive 08.
Okay, Stu. And the weather is real nice across Africa. We're getting a 16mm strip.
Real fine, Jim. Thank you.
You know, by gosh, that's a - What is that?
Did you get it, Jim, or do you want me to...
No, I'll get it. Wonder what it is?
Looks like an arrowhead.
Yes, but I wonder if it's manmade or nature-made.
Oh, hell, I don't think that could be manmade. I think it's pretty big. Africa's own Lake Arrowhead.
There appears to be water in that river down there.
Yes. Yes, there sure is.
A few fires down here to the south, along that river.
Africa is really an interesting continent. Hey, look it. There's some Maybe the geologist would like that.
Wonder what this river is we're going right along?
I don't know. I didn't look on the map to see where we came across there.
Yes, I did, but...
show me the map.
No, it's behind Dave, and I don't want to disturb him.
Okay.
Dave, it looks like maybe the clouds are
Good boy, David. That was a pretty trip, wasn't it?
Yes, that's really something...
I think it - What, what you think of f:11 at 1/250? That'd be good.
75-millimeter lens, you can't tell; boy, that's really...
Yes.
Oh, well, it's worth a try.
About a quarter of a MAG.
Isn't it, though?
I didn't see that shot until we'd almost gone by it. I was trying to keep it from going straight pass.
Yes.
There's something
Hey, could that top piece have turned with respect to the lens?
You know, I wondered about that
I checked the bottom part to see if the bayonet down by the bottom might have turned, and I can't seem to see anything loose there.
May I have the film log, Rusty, please?
Yes, if I can remember where I put that one. That one...
Right here.
Oh, hey, we're coming - Well.
Hey, Dave, I have an extra pen down in my...
I have one, too.
Oh, do you? Okay.
Where did the world go?
Down low.
Yes. I'll tell you, I never have been very successful in Africa.
Well, I'm looking at it, but I'll tell you, it's not terribly...
There's not very much down there, is there?
Just a lot of clouds. Lot of thunderstorms.
Yes, it looks like from here on out, it's all socked in.
You want to play with that camera, Rusty? You don't want to play with it?
I don't know. I've kind of played with most of the things I've thought of to play with.
I tell you, I just know I had that thing took it off and put it back on, and took it off and put it back on again. It could have been that.
Here's the log again, Rusty.
test it out
I - I don't - Let me look at it - Because I know I've had this thing on here screwed up like this, and it seems to me that, by moving the bits and pieces around, you ended up with it going in the right direction. I tell you what really fakes me out is that - the fact that's a four-sided thing that goes in here and a three-sided one that goes in like that. You've got to have it.
the 18-millimeter
Let me have one lens.
One 75?
the pin, the screw
It's got to work. Brackets don't work?
Yes,
Thank you.
There just isn't any way that thing's ever going to get straight. If you turn it a quarter -
Where's the MAG you had on this camera, Dave?
Well! I'm going to go down there and try to do my duties. I don't know. David, would you keep it out of gimbal lock for a while?
You want to stow a camera while you're doing your duty?
Sure.
Did you bring both of these back with you?
Yes.
They are; they're dandy. Yes, sometime tonight, when I get through with today, I want to
Good idea.
You want to get in this box over here, I believe.
Yes, I do; yes, I do; yes, I do; indeed, I do. (Singing)
McDivitt, you don't have to pull that box out of there; you just open it up
Oh, yes. (Singing)
More? More?
More
Yes, take pictures out there with that. Be real good.
Well, we just passed south of Dar es Salaam.
We didn't!
Yes.
I just won't believe it.
That's a neat-sounding place though, isn't it?
Yes.
Oh, no. Don't tell me. All the Kleenex has been sneezed away again.
Here you go. Boy, there are only four boxes out.
Yes, and I don't understand where they keep going. There was a full one right up against here a little while ago.
I think the other one's
Ahh, it's in Jim's pocketbook.
Look over there in the - A-8, Dave.
You know, Jim, that's a very...
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive. Standing by.
That's a very suggestive what?
Move you're making.
Roger. We hear you 5 by.
If you're going down there, Rusty, how about pulling it back?
Houston, Apollo 9.
Houston, Apollo 9.
You know, that really
Isn't it?
Houston, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive. Standing by.
Roger, Houston. How do you read Apollo 9 now?
Try the right antenna again. Houston, how do you read Apollo 9 now?
CapCom uplinking properly.
Houston, Apollo 9.
found some more chocolate. chocolate, I guess.
Houston, Apollo 9. How do you read now? Pick it up somewhere else.
Apollo 9. How do you read now?
Apollo 9, Houston. How do you read?
We're reading you. Why don't you go ahead -
You're a little intermittent, -
but why don't you go ahead and try that procedure on the PUGS?
Okay, Rusty. I'm reading you now. Step 1: SPS gaging to AC-1. Step 2: SPS heater/gaging Main A, Main B, Closed. PUGS mode, Primary. Now go to test 2 until oxidizer reads 10.8 percent. Record the fuel readings before ignition. Do not switch PUGS more during the burn. We would like to emphasize that we do feel you will get at least one caution and warning - maybe more.
Okay. Just before I do the test 2 - I missed that step.
Okay. You go test 2 until oxidizer reads 10.8 percent.
I know; just before that you want me in PUGS mode Primary?
That's affirmative. The third step is PUGS mode Primary.
Okay, understand. I'll try to read back the whole thing here: SPS Gauging to AC 1...
Oh, shoot!
SPS Heaters/Gauging circuit breakers -
Main A, Main B, Closed -
PUGS mode to Primary. Test 2 until oxidizer reads 10.8 percent...
Yes,
record the fuel, and expect the Master Alarm.
There's a full box around here someplace.
Here, Jim, there's a whole bunch of them on the wall
Okay, Apollo 9. If you read, we are not getting you. I believe you were attempting a readback. We'll be here for about 2½ minutes, if you want to try again in about 30 seconds. If not, we'll see you at Carnarvon at 25 and confirm it then.
Let's have one here, too.
Okay, how are you reading now, Stu?
And just to clarify one other point: we do feel you will get this caution and warning when the PUGS comes in about 5 seconds after ignition.
Dave, you want to close the SPS - the Heaters/Gauging Main A/Main B breakers?
Dave, you've got to do a P51 here, too. I'll try to hurry, if I can help you.
No, that's alright.
Okay, now we're going to get a Master Alarm here. I'm going to be slewing the PUGS mode down.
Are we in Normal?
Okay, oxidizer to 10.8.
Apollo 9, Houston. Thirty seconds LOS Tananarive; Carnarvon 25.
Roger.
How you doing?
Doing pretty good. How about taking an inlet hose over there?
You want to get it right in your mouth, huh? Yes, I'm about done.
come on down here. I'm just about through.
Okay, I'll be right up there, Dave.
You want to roll, Dave?
Let me see which way.
I saw some stars out to the left there.
Yes, roll - probably left would be best.
Okay. Are the roll jets activated?
I believe so. What I think I can do is flip on the hand controller. Yes.
Okay.
Now, let me see if I can tell you which one, Dave. Okay, could you turn the lights off over there?
Okay. Oh, shoot. We're pointed almost straight down.
I know it. That's the problem.
No, I mean the nose - not - not - You should be picking up the horizon behind us a little in a minute here.
I got the horizon
Oh, okay. Okay, Alphard - What else is below Leo? There's Jupiter.
Another thing I want to do is keep the lights off
You can turn them out, Dave.
You're going to be looking at the southern sky, Dave. You're going to be Vega and Spica and - whatever is below Leo.
Alphard's below Leo?
Yes, but - No, farther than that below him.
I've got the Moon. That's a big help.
Now we're just torquing; we're just orbit rating around it.
Okay.
Here, I'll get it.
How about - See, we're pitched up.
No, pitch - yes, we want to pitch down.
Which way are we rolling, Jim?
We're rolling left.
Let's see, what else is below Leo?
Well, I think we get down into Antares and Scorpio and all that.
You - you got Spica down there, Dave, and...
I - I - If we're in the southern sky, I'll be okay, as soon as get something at all - with Spica and all those guys down there.
Yes.
That's a good bunch of stars, but I just
In fact, we should be coming up on something now pretty soon, Dave.
Oh, yes, okay, and I see it now.
We're rolling...
We're rolling left slightly, and we're pitching down and - a combination
I've got the Moon and some stars.
Yes, you ought to be picking up Spica, that's right. Spica ought to be the lower right, or maybe the far right.
Got to go faster, Jim.
It looks like over on my side that we're going pretty well, because all I can see out my left window now is ground.
I've got the Moon about in the center...
Okay, another one you might have out there now - We're kind of in the north sky again now, Dave, and you're going to see - Alphecca.
Gee, I see absolutely no stars out the corner of the left side. I can see some out the top hatch. I think that a little more left roll will help you out.
Yes, I think it would. Yes. Now, we're getting some stars.
Yes, I think a left roll would be easier.
Yes, you should pick up Arcturus and Spica. Arcturus in the upper right, Spica in the lower right.
Is that alright, Dave, the way we're going?
Yes, that's alright.
Apollo 9, this is Houston through Carnarvon.
Go. Houston, Apollo 9.
Okay. And situation normal; I couldn't read you very well over Tananarive. I just wanted to verify that Rusty got those steps.
Okay. You ready to copy, Stu?
Roger. Go ahead.
Okay. Let me read you back what I've got. That was SPS gaging to AC-1. The Main A and B breakers Closed on the gaging and heaters, and PUGS mode to Primary. P00 in number - test 2 until the oxidizer reads 10.8 and record the feel. Expect the caution and warning during the burn. And the fuel after scoring with 15.4, 1-5-4, and the oxidizer balance is Full Scale Decrease.
Roger. Very good, Rusty. We copy, and would like to make two other notes. Do not switch the mode during the burn; go ahead and let it stay in Primary. And we want to emphasize that we do feel that you will get caution - at least a caution and warning about 5 seconds after ignition. When this comes in - and you may get more than one.
Roger. The way it behaved the other day, Stu, I'm not sure how clear that got across, but the oxidizer unbalanced during the burn with extremely unstable - It would jump all over and give repeated caution and warning, and unless something changed, I'd expect the same behavior.
Okay, Apollo 9. Just to make it clear again: I have seen all of that on the data, and we do feel we do know the answers to it. And we do want to do it on this test to see if what we are going to get - for two things. One on an ullage start which we have not seen on this system, and the other one is attempt to really nail down these biases that we are seeing in the oxidizer storage tanks.
Houston, this is Apollo 9. We're all for the test. We're just commenting on it.
Okay. Real good. And, yes - those series that you got the other day - those seven - Every one has been nailed down except one on that caution and warning.
Roger.
What did you nail them to, Stu?
Well, four of them - One of them was an O2 high flow that came in - I don't mean O2, I mean H2 tank pressure - came in right at that time, and four of them...
Houston, this is Apollo 9 here. We're flying over Australia now, I guess, and we can see a number of cities down there all lighted up. Which one are we over right now? It's a great big one with all kinds of lights.
Okay. That should be Perth, Apollo 9.
Okay. Hello all you people down there in Perth. Apollo 9 sends you greetings.
And, Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay. Just got a comment. Rusty asked about that - those warnings. What it was - We had a small residual in that oxidizer storage tank, and it appeared to be wetting the capacitant's probe and getting real erratic readings on it.
Oh, okay.
That was after it was empty. That was on your SPS-3, and we think we got at least five of the caution warnings from that.
Okay.
And the other problem that we think we have is the capilliary action of the fuel, and that it's giving an erroneous reading at the start. That's why we are interested in getting an ullage start on it, to see if that will help solve that problem.
Okay.
And, Apollo 9, about 30 seconds LOS Carnarvon. We'll have Honeysuckle in about a minute and a half with your S-band volume up please.
Okay.
Good morning, Apollo 9, through Honeysuckle.
Good morning. Who is this speaking to us?
Ron's back on in the daytime. Would you believe it?
No, I don't believe it.
Hello, Ron back on in the daytime. How are you?
Good shape; good shape.
How was your steak?
Really delicious.
Hey, listen, I've had guys play dirty tricks on me before, but nothing like that one last night. It really got me.
I figured that would really get to you.
It really did.
Jim was so disturbed he only got 8½ hours of sleep last night.
Hey, Ron. We've got some gyro torqueing angles if you didn't get them there on that P52.
Roger. Go.
Okay. GET of 167 33 30, minus 01322, plus 01073, minus 00655.
Roger. 9, Houston. We copy.
And that was P52 to a nominal T-align of 170 - 170 48 00.
Roger.
Hey, Dave. This is Stu again.
Go ahead. Say again, please.
Okay, Apollo 9. Just to comment on this alignment now: you will be doing a preferred burn, so we'll want that - another T-align on after the burn before the SO65 pass.
Roger. We'll do that. We just wanted to get the preferred - a final line-up here so we'd be in plane and all squared away.
Okay. I understood that. I just wanted to make that other note.
That's a good note.
here, Jim.
Pardon?
Do we need it down here?
Yes, that's fine.
Okay.
Gee, that's the - the best alignment we've ever had.
Why?
Because it's got the - On the first star cheek, it shows a star almost dead center in the sextant.
Oh, oh.
I mean, I've never seen one come exactly in the middle before.
align and I'll give you your pen back to you
Okay, let me get down here and finish my duty here.
Why don't you pick up the optics, too?
Yes, that's a good idea.
Hey, would you believe I lost my pen? (Laughter)
Would you turn the dump on over there, when you're over there, Dave, please?
Okay, dump's On. Where did you say you put that bracket? Which one is that, now? The LM utility bracket.
It's in Jim's pocketbook.
It's in A-8...
Oh.
A-8 on the far right-hand side. Open that thing up; open the door up there. The one closest to you - the big one. Okay, now, you see that big bag?
Yes.
It's in there.
Okay.
Careful. That's holding down a lot of other equipment.
Yes. I got it.
Okay?
Apollo 9, Houston through Huntsville.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Hey, when you count your water, are you supposed to count what you use to reconstitute food, too?
I do, yes. I think that's...
Oh. Oh!
Hey, amigo,
You got it? Hey, that's good. Great!
Apollo 9, Houston through Huntsville. We have an HF circuit here, and we're not going to - You are not coming back.
How about that. A new camera bracket.
Yes, this thing needs to pitch up a little bit more to be perpendicular to the window, Dave,
I think we better leave the pitch optional depending on which way we get with the spacecraft (laughter). Although we could use...
Boy, it's a great week for orbit rate torquing.
Yes.
I could...
There you go.
I could pitch it alright.
Yes, with that many joints in those brackets, you could use it just like a universal
Yes, they really are. The lights that go on them are pretty good, too.
It's a shame we can't have some of those on the command module, it would sure make operations a lot better.
O and 2.
(Laughter) Hey, that was pretty subtle, Mr. Scott.
Well, I just wanted to make a subtle comment for the record.
Let's get it for the record.
Did you have your mouth close to the mike?
Yes, it was very close.
statement for the record.
Particularly when you're trying to...
What were you talking about?
I was talking about the LM brackets and LM lights.
The LM utility lights!
The LM utility lights.
Ohh, is that what you're talking about?
That's right.
Oh, okay.
It's very difficult under the couches to see anything unless you have a flashlight somewhere.
But if we had LM utility lights under the couch, we could just use them, and leave them there, couldn't we, David!
That's right, then you could just turn the switch on, and you could go find those coolant valves if you're in a hurry and you have an emergency without trying to fumble and find a flashlight somewhere (laughter). If you wanted to, you could even use the brackets for other things. You could use it for camera mounts to take very important pictures, and just - you could even mount extra crewmembers in the LEB with them.
(Laughter)
That's right.
So, as a matter of fact, would you please - would you please type this in boldface type? (Laughter)
The time is 167:44.
(Laughter)
(Laughter)
167 hours and 44 minutes of experience.
Right. Times three for man-hours. Times three.
Shoot, we eat again.
Yea!
Time to eat? What the heck do we eat? At 168 hours, it's time to eat,
Yes, but we were supposed to wake up a few hours earlier.
Oh.
But, I mean, if you want to eat, go ahead.
So, we woke up 2 hours earlier. We were supposed to wake up 2 hours earlier, but we didn't, so we'll eat 2 hours earlier to catch up.
I'm not hungry.
I'm not either.
Baloney.
Why are you eating it, then? (Laughter) The reason you're not hungry is because you've been eating continually since 8 o'clock.
Hey, here's the way you do your water count. Let's see, on day 3, I had -
(Laughter)
(Laughter)
Ohh, 80 waters (laughter).
What's the next thing we have?
Lunch.
No, I mean -
We have to load the DAP (laughter). We do a P52 realign We get the update here.
We're not too far away.
We are about 2 hours and 15 minutes before.
Listen, we've got to got these things tied down.
Right.
See all that loose gear?
Right. Do you want to start now?
Yes, I'd sort of - I don't know, sometime; but I'd sure like to get -
Well, let's go down and give it a little whirl, right now.
Do it now; when we get daylight, we can maybe take some pictures.
Let's see, if 6 seconds will give you 174 feet per second, 25 will give you 600 feet per second.
Whooee. Here we go again. Yum!
I think I'm even going to put my suit pan up and strap in for this one. just to see how it works.
Oh, tell you what I think I'll start doing: start rearranging the - We've done everything on that page we should do. these checklists down in here.
Hey, Jim.
Yes.
Since I'm going to be, let me try that widedeadband hold in the DAP.
Okay, go ahead. This would be a good time to do it.
find it - here somewhere.
Uh oh.
Uh oh, wha - Uh oh, it's starting to get light.
Uh oh, we've logged one more day's worth of sleep than we've been up here.
{Laughter)
What! (Laughter)
Now we should have 6 days left to sleep.
No, we should have 7.
Oh, yesterday was the seventh. Sure, I logged all my food for the seventh. I thought we were still up there - Hey, that's better. We don't have so far to go, do we? Tuesday, how about that?
So, we've already logged 8 nights of sleep.
Yes.
You know, I've got the urge again. I may just break my record.
O2 Flow High.
Must be venting.
Okay, you want to kill the vent?
Yes, I guess you can.
Okay.
I don't know what I started down here to do, but I guess I -
No - Let's see, where are all those peaches?
Leave it on for just a - just a hair here.
Okay, coming back on.
Okay, whoops. If you turn it off in about a minute from right now, you're all set. We've got to get rid of these - That's a full one, too. We've got to get rid of these empty boxes of tissue. Where do they go now? That's a full one.
Here. Dave Scott, what did you do with my pen?
You took mine; I took yours.
You're really a bad apple. Do you have mine? That's what I was afraid of. I was hoping you would say yes.
Okay, you can kill the dump, Rusty, if you haven't already.
Okay, O2 Flow High.
Apollo 9, Houston through Hawaii.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 9. Go.
Roger. I have three Hasselblad targets of opportunity this rev, if you think you can get them while you are getting ready for the burn.
Okay. Stand by.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. First one: Dallas-Fort Worth; geography; 168 07 01; three frames; 6 seconds. It's south 15 degrees.
Okay.
The Intertropical Convergence Zone; the weather, 168 25 delay that - 168 28 41; three frames; 18 seconds. It's south 40 degrees.
Okay.
The Gulf of Guinea; oceanography, 168 30 37; five frames; 60 seconds; and it's north 50 degrees. Over.
Roger. Understand. 168 07 01; Dallas-Fort Worth, geography; three frames; 6-second intervals; south 15 degrees. 168 28 41; Intertropical Zone; weather; three frames; 18 seconds; south; and I believe you said 40 degrees. Is that correct?
Affirmative. South 40 degrees.
Okay. Then 168 30 37, Gulf of Guinea, oceanography, five frames, and I didn't get, the interval on that.
Roger. Sixty-second interval.
Roger. sixty seconds, and north, and I didn't get the degrees of that.
North 50 degrees.
Okay. North 50 degrees.
We're about LOS. I'll have your maneuver PAD in about 2 minutes.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead. Houston, Apollo, 9.
Roger. We noticed a CTE Reset about 15 minutes ago, and we wondered if you noticed any other glitches or anything.
Stand by one.
Houston, there is nothing that we can think of that we saw abnormal.
Roger. And I have your maneuver PAD.
Okay. I'll get the book.
Roger.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. Purpose SPS-7: 169 38 59 30, plus 02270, minus 05900, plus 01650 06533 06366 0250 26772, minus 090, minus 11022 31830 28400, minus 1510, plus 14563 1137. Over.
Roger. SPS-7: 169 38 59 30, plus 02270, minus 05900, plus 01650 06533 06366 0250 26772, minus 090, minus 11022 31830 28400, minus 1510, plus 14563 1137.
Apollo 9, Houston. You read back correct.
Roger.
9, Houston. While we have you, we'd like to get some more information on the cabin fan.
Okay, Houston. We haven't run the cabin fans very much. As a matter of fact, yesterday is the only day we ran them. They seemed to make the temperature go up, so when we were shifting the fans around at the end of the day is when we discovered that cabin fan number 1 didn't run and heated up like it did.
Roger. Understand the cabin fan had been on most of the day yesterday, then heated up.
Negative; negative. We were moving the other cabin fan, and we decided to shift fans. When we decided to shift fans, we put on fan number 1, and when we did that, we noticed that there wasn't any sound or wind coming out of the cabin fan area. So we switched back to number 2. I happened to slick my hand in that area to clean out some junk, and I felt that fan housing on fan number 1. It was very hot, so we pulled the circuit breaker on it.
Okay. Now we copy correct. Roger. Thank you.
Roger.
And, Apollo 9, Houston. Request P00 in Accept. We'll send you your state vector and target load.
Roger. P00 in Accept.
Apollo 9, Houston. I can give you some pointing data here to take a look at your prime recovery area, if you want.
Okay; fine. Go ahead.
Okay. At 168, plus 13, plus 00, with a roll 015, pitch 235, yaw 025, range will be 224 miles, and you'll be pointing right at your prime recovery area.
Alrighty. Thank you.
Apollo 9, Houston. You have state vectors both slots and the target load. Computer is yours.
Roger. Thank you.
And 9, Houston. We've also checked your vector, and it's good.
Very good. Thank you.
Apollo 9, Houston. About one minute LOS Vanguard; Tananarive at 42.
Alrighty, Houston. Tananarive at 42.
Hey, we have to do a P52. We might as well just load this
Tell you what I think I'm going to do. I'm going to take these down right now, just in case.
all the way around the cockpit?
Yes, indeed. I think it would be a good idea
169:38:59, P00. Oh, did we load the DAP?
No, do that.
Yes.
DAP (Laughter)
No! We didn't do all that. Call that up again.
quad selection.
Yes, but I - I'd like to get that in there. We're not going to be using any. I want to put the quad selection in right now.
Alright. Go ahead.
141, 00
Let's put that in.
Yes, let's put that in.
really had in mind.
6772.
You got that one. Alright?
Yes.
Okay?
Let me check it. That's right.
Okay?
Naturally.
Naturally,
Yes. Okay? 23 000, plus
I think you wrote that down, too.
Unh-uh.
Unh-uh?
No.
You don't like to do it, do you?
No, I really didn't. I really had my
Huh?
I every once in a while. Oh, shoot! I just -
Yes.
picture?
Yes.
Oh. What are we coining up on? Oh, look down here, Jim. Get that island down there. It's beautiful!
Look - where, Dave?
Right in your window.
Yes.
Try the window.
That's what I just took a picture of here were some of these islands.
Oh, isn't that pretty!
I don't know; it'd probably be Canaries.
Hey, we're going to be rolling just right...
for the intertropical-conversion zone. South 40 degrees?
No, we're not. It's at 4 minutes, and we're not going to see it.
What?
The intertropical-conversion zone.
Yes, from the right-hand window, we will.
No, we're left - we're left-hand window down here.
Huh?
We're left-hand window down.
Yes, I know; we're left-hand window down. out the right-hand window.
Intertropical conversion - What time is that supposed to be?
2 minutes.
Yes. Shoot, I guess we could roll over. Why don't we roll under?
Why don't you log...
can't even see it.
Yes, you log the - yes - okay. Finish doing what you're doing; I'll go here and roll Watch your leg on this. Okay.
get it done.
in the middle.
Gee, look at that.
Oh, you a point
Yes. Beautiful.
Get it, Jim?
I don't know. Water complex down here is something too, isn't it? Looks like good oceanography. Hey, that looks like tremendous motion. I'll take a couple feet across there. Okay?
Okay.
Oh, hey! That's really neat, you can see the bottom...
Yes, you really can.
You can see how those ships have come across there.
1001, 1002, 1003...
Hey, look, I can Go ahead.
1004.
Okay, we got about 1 minute until we get to that intertropical-zone weather.
Do you really?
see it. I can see it over here.
Do you see it over there? Can you see it out - Which way?
right.
You want me to stop rolling, or start rolling?
Keep going the way you're going.
I'm going left, slightly. Here, you want this camera?
Yes.
South of south?
No, I can't see south out here. Too bad. You can see it better than I can, if you roll left.
Actually, Dave, there's nothing down south of track.
No. There's a bunch of stuff here, though.
Yes, but you know, the intertropical-conversion zone is a bunch of - a great, big, long line of choppy weather.
I know, but it's down there.
It is?
Yes, but it doesn't look that significant to me.
Oh, I see it, way down there, huh?
Yes.
Ah!
Dave! Dave?
Yes.
Just a second. There's a kind of pretty picture there - Ooh! Sunglint on the water. Oh, that's great.
You getting sunglint on the water?
I got some sunglint on the - Oh, here's a whole string of sunglint on the water. Oh, here, hey, give me the cam - give me the - Yes, give me the movie camera. That's what we want, is the sunglint on the water with the movie.
Yes.
Right along here. What is it - the 75-millimeter? Shoot. Hold that. Six frames a second?
it's on one.
Oh, excuse me. It's on one?
on six.
Okay, thank you. Oh, this is really great! Let me -
Hold it still!
It's right along the coast here, and the sunglint is really great. Make sure we don't get into gimbal lock, Dave.
I will.
How much did they want, Rusty? This will make a - Not only will it be a great sunglint pic - picture, it'll be great from the standpoint of looking at the coast.
Rusty.
Watch your angle, Jim...
What's the matter - Is it - You getting over there.
off the window.
Oh, hey, look at that sunglint! That's fantastic!
Need to roll left.
Yes. No, I don't know what I need to do, really. It looks like the sunglint - it looks like we're aiming right at the sunglint, Dave. Yes, do whatever you think you need to do to make it get where it ought to go. Oh, we're coming across some clouds here.
Don't take too much of the window, Jim.
No. I think that's all I can take. Well - yes. It looked like I was clear of the window, Dave. Because the sunglint was - was back there. There wasn't any way I could get around that. Get to log.
Did you log the tape?
Yes.
What? (Laughter) You're going to get me on weight rather than on numerical ones, huh?
be - Oh.
Oh.
Oh, hell, that - that's - Get the 70 millimeter. Let me get the 70 millimeter
Log your 70.
That's what I'm trying to do.
What number was that one, David? Zero?
Yes, that's zero.
It was 150, 168,
What?
168
I did. Oh! (Laughter)
How many did I take? 2 minutes or something like that?
Yes.
Oh, those were really beautiful sunglint-on-water pictures. Right along the coast, and you could not only - and the sunglint was in such a place that you - also in the frame, I'm sure, we were getting some of the coast of Africa. So you're sort of getting a map of the coast of Africa and the sunglint.
(Laughter)
That's the thing about Schweickart; he never does anything in a small way. Everything is big and spectacular. Here's your boot over here, Rusty. I don't see exactly Here's your boot. Here comes the coast of Africa again.
Here comes the what?
Here comes the coast of Africa again.
I wish you'd give me back my pen, Dave. Oh, there's my pen, up there.
I wonder where mine is?
I don't know. This may be yours. You know what your is over there?
Mine's got a little white tab on it.
Has it? I know how I can tell mine...
I think it's time to get ready for the burn.
I think it is, too.
If Rusty ever gets finished.
(Laughter)
Hey, did you log a time on that, Rusty? How long? Seems like you've been down there an hour and 30 minutes.
(Laughter)
Boy, from out of the couch to back on the couch, Jim. That's what it takes.
your feet started to do that because of TPI and TPF?
Hey, it looks like - Oh, my goodness, we're really rolling. Rolling left, which is the wrong way. We go into darkness at 40 -
Are these your cinnamon toasted bread cubes, Dave?
Help yourself.
No, I just wondered if they were yours.
Yes.
Okay.
Tell you what, it looks like we're going to come out in the - we're going to be in the dark here soon. Maybe we ought to put these cameras away, to...
That's what I'm doing right now.
Good boy.
That's what I said, I think we ought to get ready for the burn now.
Hey, hand me the Hasselblad camera, and I'll put it away.
Okay, just a second. Oh.
Oh, shoot,
Yes, it's sort of disorienting when you're upside down, isn't it?
Yes.
Starting to get into darkness in here.
Dave, where did you get this one camera bracket?
One goes in U-3 up above your head. The other goes in R-10, over in the right by Rusty.
Yes. Do you know where you got this one?
No.
Okay.
I think that - that came out of U-3. I'm pretty sure, Jim.
Yes.
The LM - the LM bracket that goes - that started out in U-3.
I think I'm going to take these used Kleenex boxes and start putting them back in A-1. I'm not sure how many we even have left. Full, that is.
Here's one. Now, that's a full one there, isn't it?
Yes.
The full ones, Dave, we ought to leave someplace else.
Let's put everything in A
Okay, give us something to do afterwards; we can unstow it all again.
Oh, there's my friend, Orion. There's my even better friend, Sirius.
Hey, Dave, we have an extra helmet bag here, too, that we ought to -
No room left in that damn compartment.
In A-1?
Yes, it's all full of that other stuff.
Yes, lithium hydroxide canisters we didn't have in there before. Can't you stuff the empty ones in there, even?
I'm trying to find a better place, that has more room.
U-3 up there has some room in it. It doesn't have anything in it at all, as a matter of fact.
Apollo 9, Houston. Standing by, Tananarive.
Roger, Houston; Apollo 9. Okay, Davey, it's Buzz. You want to start...
Is it really?
Yes.
Okay, let me put this away.
Back on the line.
Matter of fact, I might even have your telescope pointing at some stars this time. I'm not so screwed up.
Amazing.
Rusty, you might want to really glue that helmet down over there.
Yes, it's glued with two snaps.
Here, you want another strap?
No - I - I've got one here. I'll put that on, okay. Put this in my pocket. You - you want to stick these in the waste bag over there?
You see the loose food bag?
Yes, but -
Apollo 9, Houston. Standing by, Tananarive.
Roger, Houston. Apollo 9 here.
We're...
Reading you loud and clear.
Roger. Same here.
Alright. We could do a preferred. How about that? How does that look like on your ball, Jim?
Roll, pitch, and yaw - Looks alright. Go.
Okay.
Dave, you're going to have Atria out there, and Acrux.
Oh my goodness! I sure use them a lot. Okay, Rusty. I'll PICAPAR. Ooh!
Yes, and it ought to pick something.
Yes, Achernar.
There's a little variety.
Yes.
Right out the old front window, we ought to have a longhorn steer there. Hello there, longhorn steer.
How - how's your drift rate, Jim?
Pretty high. You ready to stop or do you want to keep going?
Yes.
We had the longhorn steer just a little bit to the left.
Just a little bit what?
To the left and out the front and down a little bit.
Okay, Dave, that's pretty good. Out the front? He must have gone.
Yes, you got to get kind of high up to see him, but he's there.
Oh, yes, there he is!
Here comes the little old Moon up.
You've still got some pretty good drift, don't you?
No, as a matter of fact, I don't. I have a little bit - a very little bit in pitch. in pulse.
Oh, man, it's really moving! There you go.
There's about 0.001 in roll. (Laughter)
You been in and out of P40 and all the way over here already. You've been rolling!
Did we do a P30 already?
Yes. We did P30 earlier. Okay, that's some stuff, isn't it? I got some back there. I'm going to get mine in a minute. I only see just one more thing to do.
As soon as you finish this, I'm going to pulse on over there to O, O, O, Dave.
Okay. Let me run through the star check here.
Yes.
What time is the burn?
Oh, it's about 20 or 30 minutes into daylight. We've got about hour.
Do you still have your scissors out, Jim?
What?
Do you still have your scissors out?
Do I have my scissors out? Yes, I have them packed away in my pocket.
No, okay. I've got mine there. I just thought I'd ask.
Okay. Right on old Canopus. How about that?
Okay, Jimmy, all yours.
Okay. Let's - let's start moving over there. Optics, zero; CMC.
That is a pretty sky out there, isn't it?
Why don't we clean up some more of this stuff here while I'm trying to get the right attitude? Then you can do a star check on Diphda. Okay?
Yes. That's a good idea.
Here's a couple of pieces that could go in the loose food bag, but I don't see the loose food bag anyplace.
Here it is, here. No, that's not the loose food bag. That's just an empty bag.
Here, Rusty, see if you can the exerciser. Wherever that is.
Last I saw it, it was floating under the couch there...
Yes.
Jim left it hanging down there!
It was stowed down here, and I think when I was taking a crap, I knocked it loose. And it went under here - I want to find that; I don't want to get hit with that thing. There it is.
Here's a box of Kleenex.
Is that an empty?
No, that's a full. Almost full.
Davey.
My goodness, it isn't very long after we come into daylight - certainly moved it up here about 10 - about 10 minutes; 169:38.
40 minutes away.
Did you find the bits-and-pieces bag?
No, I can't find the bits-and-pieces bag. Must be down underneath there, again.
No. How about the tape? Did that already get put away, somewhere?
Tape?
Should be somewhere; should be small. I think there's something here. Is that garbage?
Yes.
I can keep pushing it down.
Okay.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston. Apollo 9.
Roger. In preparation for a possible fuel cell 2 H2 purge, request H2 purge line heater on.
Roger. They're on.
Roger.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. Request an H2 purge on fuel cell 2 for 5 minutes, at 169 plus 17, and this is to bring the exhaust temperature down.
Roger. Fuel cell purge for 5 minutes at 169 17.
Did you get that time?
Affirmative, and this is so we won't get a Master Alarm due to the high exhaust during the burn.
Okay.
Okay, Jimmy, there's - a mark on Regulus and a shaft of 318.3.
Say again.
You're not reading me?
I am now. Just then cutting you out.
I say the shaft should be 318.3 - plus 318.42.
Okay.
Trunnion should be 28.4 at 27.02.
Good.
1.4 degrees
Okay. Okay, back to stowing things.
I guess we ought to take everything off the,
I was thinking about these helmets up here; they probably be alright.
If you put forced air through them, Jim, it will - them down.
Yes.
I'm going to take all the tools and all that stu -
Oh yes, yes, yes. I was thinking about the helmets. They are relatively light and well supported.
Need to put a camera somewhere, too.
We've got one extra camera here that came over f - the LM. Doesn't really have a spot. Maybe I c - jam it in here.
I don't know if it will fit or not. Will it? N - not quite.
Hey, how about checklist, Jim?
Well, I guess I don't need my big one. Could you stow it up there on the...
Yes, That'll be fine.
I want the pad out...
Procedures book - where's the procedures book?
Right here.
You can take these, Dave.
Okay.
How about the flight plan? You want that out?
I guess we don't need it out right now. Yes, we can it away.
These tissue boxes?
Yes, I'm going to have to go down and do an inventory of tissue boxes when we finish this burn, and figure out a place to put them all.
Dave?
No, tissue boxes. Ahh! U-2, Rusty...
Hey, there you go.
stick tissue boxes in there, too, to pad it.
Yes. Is there anything else in there now?
U-2 or U-3?
U whatever it is, U-4.
Rusty, I can get it down here.
Yes, but there wasn't anything in there last night, Rusty.
Hey, Dave, I'll put it right in here. I don't know if the camera's going to fit though, come to think of it. Let me look.
I've got a place for the cameras I want, in front of other things.
Okay. Stand by.
No, it's a little too thick for that.
Okay, you ready, Dave?
No. Not now. Store all this stuff in here.
Parts catalogue.
My God! That's a smaller compartment than it looks like - that U-3, or 4, or 5, or 6, or 7 - Kind of useless - God, it holds just one tissue box.
Here's a bag here. Oh, shoot! That has some tissue boxes - Hey, you know what we could do? We could put these tissue boxes in this bag here and tie this bag down. It's an extra bag. I already threw one empty tissue box in there. Is that an empty one?
No. That's a full one.
Okay. Well, let's just throw them all in here.
Well, I've got one stowed up here...
Dave, would that be easy to stow - just to stow this big bag someplace?
What kind - yes.
Okay. We've also got a set of long underwear running around loose up here.
Yes. That LCG?
Yes.
Let me stick that in the
The LCG's?
Yes.
Shoot, I haven't
Rusty, the flight plan you can put in R-10, can't you? Or R-12?
Yes, yes, I can.
Stick it over there. I'd like to have more room here.
I wonder what we're going to do with that R-12 when we get around to reentry?
Put it back where it started from.
We're going to have to have a fire drill the day before to practice stowing.
We could just stow the whole damn thing the night before.
Yes.
Except for sleeping places and that kind of stuff.
Look, I'm going to have to put my feet up.
Okay. You got a place there?
Yes.
Here.
Matter of fact, give me - you got another tissue bag up there? I found a place to put that.
Well, I got it stowed.
Okay, what's in that bag?
There's the tape. Oh, I'm glad we had that little burn first. after this one.
Dave, you might want to put this in there, after you do the stars.
Yes.
God damn! Boy, your hair will get caught in that - whiskers get caught in this thing. Open out a little bit, and they really pull.
Oh, hell, I'm going to have to reroute all my hoses do that.
Oh, hey, speaking of hoses, pull those hoses down out of the tunnel.
I don't think I'll do that.
Okay. Let me see. Anything else floating around up there?
Rusty, you had better put your feet all the way up. Your legs are going to get whacked, when we go.
Okay. Thank you.
Throw that towel up; I'll just stick it up here.
Damn these hoses.
I think we can probably leave this one where it is.
Well, I want to strap them down.
Well, I can strap it right here.
How long we have, Jim?
Just 23 minutes.
Whoo!
Okay, I'm going to Auto maneuver us over there now.
Lots of things hanging loose.
Yes. I think the stuff in there will be okay.
Okay. Purge on fuel cell 2.
Okay.
I had difficulty
Well, they want it 5 minutes, right?
boost on it, would you?
Rusty, what do you want to do with this?
I'm going to use it. Got to read it.
Looks pretty good, Dave.
Put everything away?
Yes. The only thing we have here is just one piece of food, which I'm going to throw away if you don't want. Just one bar here, but that looks like it's pretty strong. It's pinned up there. You want to put it back? Oh, it fits over in the left-hand side there, doesn't it?
Yes. Thank you.
You want this, Dave?
Yes. I don't think there is any shortage of cinnamon toasted bread.
What's the time of the burn, Jim? (Cough)
Burn time is -
Let me give you the pad. I'd like to copy down my standard rule...
Sure.
copy...
Why don't you pass it back? I want to get a couple of things.
Yes.
you're going to get a bunch of Master Alarms on the PU Sensors, just tell me; don't sweat it, if that's what it is.
Okay.
I think one of these
Say, Jim?
Just a minute.
Apollo 9, Houston trough Hawaii. I can give you a time hack at 16 minutes.
Roger, Houston. Apollo 9, standing by.
4, 3, 2, 1.
Mark.
Sixteen minutes.
Okay. We're right with you.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston. Apollo 9.
Roger. You're looking great down here. You have a Go for SPS number 7.
Roger. Understand. A Go for SPS number 7.
Affirmative.
Apollo 9, Houston. You're still looking good. Standing by.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 9.
13.
10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, proceed, 3, 2, 1 -
IGNITION. Whee! Got them?
Got two of them.
That's good.
Okay. No sweat, good. Everything's just fine.
15 seconds.
DSKY's good.
10.
DSKY looks good.
9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 -
Shutdown. Okay. Delta-V Thrust, Normal, Off.
Delta-V Thrust, Normal, Off.
Okay - Gimbal Motors, four, to Off.
Okay, Pitch 1, Pitch 2, Yaw 1, Yaw 2.
All verified; TVC SERVO Power, 1 and 2, Off.
Houston, Apollo 9. Have you got the residuals off the DSKY?
Apollo 9, Houston. I have the residuals.
Roger. We're at the attitude, and the EMS Delta-V counter is minus 17.5.
Minus 17.5.
9, Houston. We have your orbit 253.1 by 97.9.
Roger. It's pretty smooth, too.
Good.
Like an arrow in the sky.
Beautiful.
You know, after all these days up here in zero g we're not accustomed to these high g's like 0.8 g's.
(Laughter)
Houston, where are we right now?
Roger. You're over Mila now.
Okay.
9, Houston. Everything looks real good down here. Looks like we will have you here for about 8 more minutes.
Okay. Very good.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Houston. Go.
Listen. I never was able to get the spacecraft over in the right attitude to look at the weather as we went by before, so I'm afraid I can't tell you what the weather is. Besides which, I didn't want, to terrify myself for seeing how bad it really was.
Roger. That's all right. It's going to get better, anyhow.
Okay.
Now that we have performed our day's work, we are back eating again.
Okay. Good.
9, Houston.
Go.
Hey, while you are eating your lunch there, I might read to you what the astrologers say about your day. This is for both Jim and Dave. You must learn to listen well. Don't get into any disagreements today and group activity is preferable tonight.
Well, we'll try - (laughter) - We'll try, Ron.
Okay.
Hey, is three considered a group?
Stand by. This is Rusty's. Be selective in choosing your friends. Get any new scheme moving promptly.
I got a new scheme moving promptly this morning.
Okay.
I think he may have a little trouble choosing his friends for a couple of days.
That's right.
Hey, did they have any more good basketball games last night?
Roger.
How far along are they in the playoffs for the basketball championships?
Roger. Copy. Just a second.
9, Houston. Request a readout of the PUGS gages and the imbalance meter.
Okay. Oxidizer is 9.2, and the fuel is 5.0, and the unbalance is Full Scale High - That is FULL SCALE on the increase.
Roger. Was the fuel 9.0?
9. - I'm sorry. Fuel was 5.0, oxidizer 9.2.
Roger. Fuel 5.0.
That's affirmative.
Hey, Mr. Evans. I have a little bit of news for you.
Roger. Go.
Do you realize that that was the 17th propulsive maneuver that we have performed on this flight - not counting the S-IC, the S-II, the three S-IVB's, and the APS burn to depletion.
That's right, by golly.
See. Don't we have a lot of useless data up here?
(Laughter)
Antigua at - Ascension at 58.
Okay.
Hey, Ron, are you still there?
Dropped
Yes. Sounded like we dropped just as we
You know what I'm going to do with that? I'm going to take a picture of that.
Going to have to let it settle for a while.
Hey, let's spin it, see if we can - Okay, there you go.
(Laughter) You better take a picture when it's spinning because it's - (laughter).
Well, no, it's okay. It still in the middle.
Let it settle for a while and get into a recognizable bubble.
Yes.
It's pretty recognizable. Here's your camera back, Rusty. You got a handle, too?
Yes.
Better take it off and stow it.
Huh?
You know, I thought we were going to go over Africa again.
You better start taking that perigee torque down 98.
Listen, we've been getting something where we were.
Oh, boy, goody, goody, gumdrops.
Hey, Rusty. Want me to hold it for you?
Actually, that puts it against a brighter background - Well, it might be -
Okay, you want me to hold it while you take a picture? Okay.
How far away am I going to be now? I'm not even 3 feet away - Let me scoot down a little. Okay -
You got enough light? Need some light?
A little bit, yes. That about 3 feet?
Yes, just about.
Okay, now that was number 150.
You ought to save it (laughter).
(Laughter) Hey, zero-g again.
We're out of film on MAG A.
Are you really?
Tell you what, we're heading down. I think I shall just stop our roll in order to view the world go by.
Hey, you don't get food for your friends, huh?
I tossed a whole bag up there.
Did you? What did you say?
I tossed a whole bag. Don't need any smart remarks. Look around first. Two bags - didn't I throw you two bags?
I don't know.
Two full bags of food - for my friends.
I have a feeling that a lot of the food in that bag over there isn't going to get eaten.
You do?
The grab bag?
Yes. Oh, this is spaghetti; some of that.
Did you want a grab bag, Russell?
I don't know; is this the grab bag? Yes, it's the grab bag.
Would you like to pull grab bag.
Let me see what we got on the menu.
Jim, that wasn't very good. Now, you're going to - in gimbal lock.
It sure takes a long time to get across the Atlan - (laughter) - takes an even 10 minutes.
That grab bag keeps getting grabbier.
Grubbier or grabbier?
Grubbier, yes.
Oh, my lips are really getting dry.
(Laughter) My lips or yours?
Okay, you got water.
Apollo 9, Houston through Ascension.
Roger. You're five-square, Houston.
Roger. Loud and clear. That Miami and Notre Dame game was one of the playoff games. The playoffs are on now. We'll get some more scores for you when we get some.
Okay. Very good.
The USC/UCLA game wasn't a playoff game, was it?
Negative. That was a conference game.
Okay.
Did the University of Houston get in the playoffs?
I'm not sure. San Jacinto State beat Tyler here in the first game of the Texas playoffs for the national championship.
Oh.
Apollo 9, Houston. We'd like to verify the H2 purge-line heater is off.
That's verified, Houston.
Roger. Thank you.
Houston, 9.
Houston. Go.
Roger. What's our inclination following that burn, please?
Roger. Stand by one.
9, Houston. Your inclination is 33.54 degrees.
Okay. Understand 33.54. Thank you.
before we get there. It also looks like it's going to be undertasked.
2, 3
"Unstow and install the SO 65 CWEA."
Apollo 9, Houston. One minute LOS. Tananarive at 15.
Well, I'll go down - down and get
Roger. Tananarive 15.
Getting my foot all wet in this water (laughter).
Ahh! I'll tell you what, David...
why don't you let me do the alignment? Unless you can get over there.
No, I can get it. No problem.
Okay, Rusty. Why don't you get it out, and throw it up here, and I'll...
0oh!
Ooh! Don't drop it.
Ooh! Ay! Yi-yi!
Tell you what, Dave. Let me sneak underneath, and I'll be out of your way completely. Boing. Okay, I'll go up to my spot.
As a matter of fact, you know what? We ought to get some pictures of me doing an alignment this time and I'll do one upside down!
(Laughter) I bet that will be fun!
How about that! Think that would go over? They want pictures of crew activity.
David, your great big bubble is floating all over the place.
Throw it back here. I'll get it, or try and get it.
Here's a red food bag. Did you get that out, Jim?
I only had one over there.
Wonder where that...
Oh, the door is open.
Dave, you that thing straight up and down?
No, it's not. It has to be - Rotate clockwise...
I don't know which way that is. Is that that way...
to you. That's right. They want it clockwise, relative to you. There you go. Now a tad counterclockwise. A little bit more. Line it up with that bar. There you go; you're alright.
Whoop! I lost my footing over there.
I think that's pretty good now.
Okay.
Try standing - stand back and see what it looks like.
What's that for?
Gimbal lock. We're out of it. Dave, take a look at that and see if it looks okay.
You really can tell better from up here on that, Jim. You can't see all that...
You can't see what? You want me to line it up again. Does it look pretty much aligned?
Yes. It looks pretty good.
Okay!
I don't even think it makes that much difference. If it goes in the hole, push it!
experiment.
The bubble experiment? Here it is.
The bubble experiment.
I need the exerciser. I want to exercise.
You going to exercise now?
Why not? Where did you put it?
In A-5.
Okay. I'll get it.
I'm going to do my alignment before you do your exercise.
No, no. I'm not going to exercise right this second. I just want to know what it is, because I'm going to get ready to exercise.
I put it in A-5. There's room in there, and that's a heavy thing, sort of.
Okay. Is it time to eat again?
I need to eat lunch. Did you eat lunch?
I don't remember. I've just been sort of eating continually.
Well, I'm not very hungry, even.
Oh, good! Banana pudding! Oh. Spaghetti and meatballs, banana pudding...
Do you want to watch these, Jim?
Do I have a what?
Would you watch these with me, please?
Okay. Yes. Actually, I can see these two.
Yes. All Go.
Think I'd better get our update?
Panels on? Shoot, I've already had this one three times. These flights
What's the matter?
on it when we started out, but it's - That's a funny-looking number, isn't it?
What do the rest of them say?
I don't know.
What's the number?
70.
This one's 70, also.
This says 70, also.
Yes, it means we've taken 70 pictures.
Hey, we...
We have a 25, you know. What's that? Oh, good. Are you looking for the T-align time, Dave?
170:48.
170:48.
170:48.
That's right.
Going to take a star sight right now?
Yes, we might as well.
I think it's safer.
I think so, too.
(Laughter) I think so, too! And it's all ready to go; I'll run down and take a look to make sure, but
I wonder if we're really wasting - aren't just wasting that thing.
That test shot?
Yes.
Yes.
We don't have any spare batteries for it; if it doesn't work, there's nothing we can do about it anyway.
I think so, too.
Everything's plugged in. That's really a nice rig.
Jim, how does that look on your ball?
Roll, pitch, and yaw. That's actual - that's really superb. I yawed over here close enough to gimbal lock, and it put me right back on the bellyband.
Okay. Ready? Go!
Gee, that's really more like it. About 180 degrees in pitch, about 60 degrees in yaw, and about nothing in roll.
Really?
Yes. We went about as far on that one as we could go. That was just to test our ingenuity, I think.
(Sneeze) Ahh! Almost hurts to sneeze.
Where's that full food hag? Is it in here?
Yes. That's where it was.
Is that it?
Yes. Do we have all of today's meals in here?
No, I just grabbed a bunch out. Want a couple more?
No - Wait a minute...
Man, would I like some clam chowder right now? Whooee! Some good soup would really hit the spot, and I don't understand why they can't make it...
Boy, it really would. You'd think that's the simplest thing in the world to make, wouldn't you?
Yes, and with so many dried soups on the market, now, you know, you don't have to go out there and make a technological breakthrough. Might be a financial one. A 50-cent soup bag instead of a 200-dollar one. (Singing) How many balls you get that time?
You know, I've made - Those were two of the best marks I've made, and I got four, one. when you got rates in there, there's no way to get less than
Do I have rates in it?
Yes. Oh, yes, yes -
Yes, as a matter of fact, I had - I had...
Boy, I had both those really nailed.
I had pitch and yaw both in there.
Blame it on the CDU's. Go ahead.
Roll and pitch in there. I didn't know you were that kind of guy, David. Blaming it on everybody else all the time.
Only way I could get out of it.
Just because it's legitimate doesn't mean it's honorable.
(Laughter) The only way David could think to make that program stop was to hit that mark button a couple of times. (Singing)
What we need up here is some music!
Did you really lose your tape?
Yes, I think so. I can't find it.
Where did you have it?
I had it in my white room, put it in my lower pocket on my suit; and I've looked and it's not there. Of course, the other thing I didn't do is take my EVA PPK kit over with me that day.
Oh, didn't you? (Laughter) Oh, well. Can't have everything.
Yes. The important thing got done, I guess.
Third star check works.
Good. Yes, yes, yes.
I'll tell you, one thing I'm learning on this trip is the southern stars.
Yes. We always use that, don't we?
Yes, we've had them every time. Enif, Menkent, Acrux, Atria, and all those guys.
Yes, I know. Wonder why that is?
It does seem - it does seem much more than random.
I'm glad we spent all that time in the planetarium. You know?
Really helped. Wonder if it's the time of the y - or something.
Yes! You know, where the Earth is relative to the Sun, and on its axis and all that fancy astrology stuff.
(Laughter)
(Laughter)
Who your friends are and all that.
What group are you associated with? Oh, boy, I opened this whole thing up, and there's nothing in here but a butterscotch pudding? Phew!
Shoot, just throw it in the other bag.
What do you got for it?
You got my grape punch yet?
I'm going to try the cream of chicken soup. How that?
I had some the other night. It wasn't too bad, it wasn't nearly as good as it could have been.
It wasn't as good as it sounded, huh?
No.
I'm going to try it, and see what happens. See it all comes out.
You know, I thought every meal had chewing gum in it, but it doesn't.
It doesn't?
No.
You say you wanted a grapefruit drink, Jim?
No.
I'm almost getting to the point where I prefer water to some of the juices now.
Well, if you don't want it, I'll take it.
Well, that's what I mean.
Yes! Thank you. I guess I'll have to trade you something. How about a - a grape drink? (Laughter) How about some banana pudding?
No, thanks. I had my fill of bananas for the flight last night. Man, that stuff is really overdone.
I tell you. It's a lot better if you mix it with a lot of water, and make it more like a drink than a pudding.
That would make it last even longer.
Yes, but it's a lot thinner, and you don't even have to chew it. More like a banana milkshake than a banana. (Singing)
Okay. Where is our update book? Can we get that out?
Yes. We're going to need the update book, Dave.
Sure.
Yes.
(Singing) Oh, here we go, again.
Here's a gunk on it for you, Dave? (Singing) I want to do one of those SO 65's in the
Yes, me too. But I'll lay you odds; you don't do any that way.
Well, I'm ready for bed.
Ready for bed? You've been up 6 hours and 15 minutes.
Well, I'm ready for bed.
Boy.
How's the old sick fuel cell 2?
Old sick cell - fuel cell 2, T is going back up and the performance is staying pretty good today. It is dragging its share of the load.
Was that fuel cell light on before, when they - they did the purge?
No, it was just not quite on. I think they thought it was going to come on, so -
We only got one Master Alarm during the burn there, didn't we?
Yes.
It came on, and went out again, didn't it? Not the Master Alarm, but the warning light. It looked to me like it came on and then went out, and then stayed out.
Well, it shouldn't have. Frankly, I don't know whether the warning light went on or not.
Beef bites, blaugh!
Davey, are you doing something useful, or can you get me some hot water?
Hey, I'm going down and get some...
Okay. the opposite one
5 ounces. You want it by the menu?
Huh? Yes. Yes, 5 is good.
Davey whipping up his camera setup again? What are you going to use as a sun filter?
Hey, Dave, you ought to take a picture of the Sun.
Hey! Good idea. You'll need Auto optics?
Apollo 9, Houston through Carnarvon.
Roger, Houston. Read you five-square.
Roger. I have an SO65 update.
Okay. Go ahead. We're ready to copy.
Roger. Inertial angles 180 00, 181 20 all zips. GET is 171 24 00. Your T-align was 170 48 00. It's orb rate, and the rate is 0.066 degrees per second. Your orb rate fall angles, 180 327.5 and 0. The site is the Amazon River mouth 171 29 26 20 and 03.
Okay. Is that 21, Ron?
Roger. I have some more brief data for you. Just the one on this one here.
Okay. Go ahead with your orb rate data.
Roger. Victor through Zulu: 00002, 14 175 00000 11 546 514 621. Over.
Okay. Understand. 180 00, 181 20, all zips. 171 24800 170 48 00; orb rate 0.066 degrees per second. Local vertical angles 180, 327.50, Amazon River mouth 171 29 26 20 03, and Victor through Zulu: 00002 14175, all zips, 11546 and 54621.
Apollo 9, Houston. Your readback is correct, and I've got some sequence camera stuff for you.
Okay. Stand by one.
Go ahead.
Okay. It's a high oblique to the north sweeping across the United States.
Sequence camera, 75 mm lens, six frames per second, and you'll be using CEX 368 films. You'll start at GET 171 plus 11 plus 38 to 171 plus 19 plus 16. Over.
Roger. High oblique to the north sweeping across the U.S., sequence camera, 75mm lens, six frames per second, CEX 368, beginning 171 11 38 to 171 19 16. We may have a little problem there because to point way out to the north there we are going to get in gimbal lock - we'll - If we point out 45 degrees or so, we'll be able to hack it for you.
Roger. That'll be mighty fine.
All right.
(Singing) How many are you taking from there, David?
Okay. It's all yours.
It didn't take long to get the things all back out again, did it?
Huh?
It didn't take long to get things all back out again, did it?
I like getting things out. Yes, we've got to get one more thing out and that's the crew log.
Crew log? Get all that junk out.
Grapefruit drink! More grapefruit drink!
Maybe that's mine. As a matter of fact, I had two over here a minute ago, and now I only have one. I also had a banana pudding unknown juice.
Jimmy, it looks like you're going to be taking pictures - Whoops! I my count again.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18. That's where you're supposed to start, at 18?
Yes.
Okay, you're going to be taking pictures - We're going to come right across the north tip of the Gulf of California and take some pictures up towards Los Angeles -
Do we have the high orbit there, or the second high orbit?
Second. I don't know - I wonder what their big deal is? We've only got 10 million pictures of that area.
Which area is it?
It's from - it's the sweep across the southern U.S.
Oh, really? We'll see all those interesting places.
Yes. It's a good - it's a damned good sweep, because we also just missed Cuba. We come across the southern tip of Cuba.
We'd better find a better place to put that - We really need that camera mounted in one of these side windows here. Okay, I wonder if it'll fit over there. Yes, it will.
That one?
Sure.
The 75-millimeter camera?
Yes, the 75-millimeter camera. It won't fit on this side; it's pointing in the wrong direction.
What's the right direction?
Well, I just can't get the 75-millimeter lens mounted on the camera so we can mount it in there.
But, Jim, either way
I know it, I'm trying to figure out some way of getting the God-blessed camera up there! I don't want...
That's not a good way!
Where would you like to have the camera?
I'd like to have the camera pointing out one of these two windows.
I bet we could probably figure that out.
Good! Hurry up, though!
Want me to figure that out for you?
Yes, okay.
Why don't you just pass it up while you eat? And we'll figure that out.
Turn off those...
you'll never be able to get it.
Those things have to fit together.
Okay? All you have to do is flip over, head first, downwards, and take a But I'll get it for you. Just a minute.
Where are they? Which...
I'll get them.
I can get them.
No, you're fine. You don't know where they are. Okay, here, get up there, and I'll pass you the whole box.
Maybe we'll make a technological breakthrough here today.
Which way - They want them north (singing) - We're going to be upside down, and f:4...
for you, Jim. Matter of fact, I -
They want sequence camera pictures, pointing north.
Yes.
Looks like the easiest way to do that, is just mount it down the X-axis and point the spacecraft over there.
No, I think there's an easier way to do it. Mount it in the side window, Jim.
Yes, what...
Hey, Jim, the easy way is to - We've only got a few minutes to set up that orbit rate, so why don't we just go over that part of state in orbit rate also, and then take out the side window? Because this side window looks north. Then we're all set up for the SO 65.
I don't like that idea...
Okay.
I didn't think of it. I'll think of another one -
You're as bad as David. Hey, this is a real challenge. I don't understand what the hell's wrong with this. I know that this thing fits in that window.
No, that's an untruth, Jim. You know that it's supposed to fit.
I just don't understand that. I just don't understand it.
Hey, that's
There must be some way we can make that mother work.
exactly the way I had it the other day
It's going to go on now! It's going to fit! Turn it over there. Isn't it?
No,
David is fixing the 75-millimeter lens for it.
And, the 75-millimeter lens is fixed, gang.
Odd-job did it again!
(Laughter)
Apollo 9, Houston trough Guam.
Roger. Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. I have your libration points if you feel so inclined.
Yes. The ones that I wanted - by the way, Ron - were the ones for the Moon - Earth/Moon libration point.
That's affirmative. That's what we gave you.
Okay. Good.
Go ahead.
Okay. Number 1 - and this is all at 172 hours - number 1, right ascension on 12 hours 46 minutes, declination minus 6 degrees 13 minutes; number 2 is at 20 hours 46 minutes, declination minus 22 degrees 15 minutes.
Okay. Number 1 at 12 hours 46 minutes, minus 6 degrees and 13 minutes; number 2, 20 hours 46 minutes, declination minus 22 degrees and 15 minutes, and those are good for 172 hours.
Roger. And number 1 turns out to be up around by Spica; number 2 is down in the Cadillac V.
Okay. Thank you.
9, Houston. We will have you at Hawaii at 58.
Roger.
And be advised that you have burned 10,515 feet per second Delta-V in the LM and CSM.
Roger.
Roger.
Hey, do we get a -
Say again.
Do we get a pin for the 10,000 club?
Hey, that's, right. How about that?
I'm afraid that Borman and those guys got us beat.
That doesn't mean we can't get in the club.
Hey, Dave, as a matter of fact, you know, if they gave us vectors, unit vectors, you could look at them through the sextant with Auto optics.
Yes.
That'd be a better way to do it.
Sure would be.
Because, you know, the chance of seeing them with your eyeball is like nothing.
It's like nothing. And I agree.
Do you want to try that for a funsies?
Sure; actually...
Let me ask them at Hawaii.
Okay. Maybe he's still there. Is he still there?
No. No.
Let's see. What the hell is a? That's Capricornus.
Listen, Jim. Let me do something for you here.
Go ahead.
Where did you put that bracket for the camera?
I ain't put it anyplace.
Where'd I put the bracket, then, Jim?
I'll look.
Why don't I hold the camera while you're looking?
Mmm.
Gee, Jim, you forgot the power tool. But you did pretty good. We'll get you learned how to unstow things yet.
I need more practice at it. You guys never let me play with it.
Oh, no - No, well, that's what I was thinking.
(Singing)
How much fuel you think you'll blow on this, Commander?
How much fuel are we going to use?
Oh, let's see.
We're not going to use very much.
That's a very reasonable sum! Whatever that is.
(Singing)
Now, where did I put that thing? Didn't I give it to you to put...
R...
You gave it to me to put in the U-4 - I mean 3, but we already had one in U-3, and I think Rusty took it and put it - took it, and I think he went back and gave it to you - or put it in A-7 himself.
Okay.
Hold it, now. Which bracket?
The window bracket.
Oh, oh, oh, I thought you were talking about that LM bracket.
No, the LM bracket, I know where that is.
I know where the other one is.
Between us, we know where both brackets are.
(Singing)
You know, I think the only way we're going to be able to do it is out the side window. I had an extra 5 minutes in there that we weren't - that we don't have.
Okay. Well, look, Jim, I don't want the bracket.
No.
I'm going to get the bracket out and put it up here though.
Just mount it in the side window, Jim.
What?
Just mount the camera in the side window. Hand held, it won't...
Here you go. Here's your bracket. Now I need the LM bracket.
Oh, I can feel it. We went up and came down again with my ears. You feel that?
(Laughter)
What happened there?
What happened?
I had my hand right on the stick, like this, so I know you didn't hit it, but -
I didn't hit it or anything.
Okay, you're going to get the orbit-rate attitude, here, Jim?
Yes, I'm going - I'm going to go around and - and put it in the orbit-rate attitude, and orbit rate in the attitude that we would be in, in Pulse, so that we're only going to be just a few degrees away from it when we start going. Here - here's what we're going to have to do, Dave. You're going to have to take and...
It's going to be right...
load up the whole thing, and get ready to do it. We'll have about 5 minutes from the time we take - from when we stop taking those frigging pictures, until...
Until what?
we have to start that ORB rate torquing, and I'll be ready, at about the right attitude, there.
Okay.
You don't think it's worth setting it up first, huh?
No, I don't think...
Hey, it's a good attitude we've got right here, Jim.
You don't have any real good luck setting it up first.
Oh, I see.
Well, what'd he give you? 27.5 and zero?
Right.
183, 27.5, and zero.
That's the local vertical one.
Yes, right. That's where. I'm going to fly the thing.
There you go.
Okay.
What was the frame rate and all that, Jim?
It was 6 frames per second.
Okay.
You have some way of mounting it over there?
Yes.
Yes.
Make sure that it doesn't shoot too far out to the side, though.
I'll do my best.
Pan about 30 degrees or so, and, if it's not enough, just give me a holler and I'll roll the spacecraft. We have roughly 13 minutes until we start.
Okay; time?
Start timing...
Apollo 9, Houston through Hawaii. And it looks like we'll have you all the way through Antigua, until about 28.
My goodness - What a long pass.
Roger, Houston. Understand. Hey, we have got another little thing you can work on - for those libration points. I wonder if you could give us the one-half unit vectors for those, and we could use Auto optics.
Roger. One-half unit vectors. We'll see if we can't work them out for you.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston. Go.
Roger. We need a little more detail on this string of 75-millimeter - 16-millimeter movies we are going to take here. How far out - How far below the horizon do you want the picture taken, or how far out from the track do you want it taken? We need some angle to point the camera.
Okay. Understand.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Houston, 9.
Roger. Read you loud and clear now: 9. On this pointing angle you want about 45 to 60 degrees above the nadir.
Forty-five to 60 degrees above the nadir.
Affirmative.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, this is Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston. Go.
Roger. We are getting an awful lot of pictures of clouds here. Do you want to use the film on clouds?
Roger. We copy. I'm getting a reading from the back room there.
Okay.
Keep clicking away.
Okay. Will do.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Houston. Go.
Roger. It's just about time for us to stop this thing now. We're coming across the southern tip of Florida, the Keys, and the southern tip of Cuba. I think we'll let it keep running here. And it looks like we are finally getting out of the clouds.
Hey, mighty fine. Continue.
Okay.
You might be advised that this is one of the rare times that the mouth of the Amazon is supposed to be without clouds down there, so that is why we are trying to get that one this time.
Great. Okay. You want some Hasselblad 70-millimeter standard stuff, too?
Okay. You can throw some of them in there if you can get it while you are getting the SO65.
Oh, man, we're versatile. We can take pictures out of four or five windows at the same time.
Beautiful.
You wouldn't believe the amount of gear we have got in here.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Go, Houston. Apollo 9.
Roger. I wonder if you could tell us if the FDAI is in 1/2, and if ball 1 is in orb rate at this time.
The FDAI is in 1/2 and ball 1 is not in orb rate; it's inertial. And ball 2 is in orb rate.
Roger. Thank you.
Houston, 9.
Houston, go.
Roger. We just let the 16mm run all the way down. Just by coincidence it went - it's gone right down the chain of islands and just went right through the middle of the tongue of the ocean back there aways.
Roger. We copy; that.
This is the Apollo 9 travel logue.
Right.
Apollo 9, Houston. I have those half - unit vectors there if you have somebody that can copy them.
I guess we're all taking pictures. Can you stand by?
Sure. We'll catch you at Ascension.
Okay.
Hey, we're not going to be over the; we're going to be over the water.
29 what?
We're not be over the Amazon.
Yes, there's the mouth of the Amazon over here on the left. Over there.
Yes. Get your Hasselblad going.
Yes.
Over there?
Go ahead and take some pictures.
Okay, I'll take some pictures.
Some pictures of water.
Water.
clouds in water
(Laughter)
You know what? We should have rolled right there.
Okay.
No, it's not so good over here, either. It's too cloudy. Just too cloudy.
Okay, well, it was a very That's too bad. What's our next event?
SO 65. Get out the pad for it.
Mexico. Mexico and Brazil on SO 65. Yes. And let me go over here to
Get the C roll off? B roll, B pitch, B yaw.
Hey, that's too bad.
May I have the flight log, please?
Crew log?
Crew log, yes.
I'm kind of warm in here.
Begin rest period. Only 4 hours - 3½ hours until a rest period.
Hot dog.
(Laughter)
Hey, that a boy, Schweickart, little
We didn't get any landmark tracking in today.
Rusty, do you want this back?
What time is it at the Cape?
It's 2:30 at the Cape. You mean we go to bed at 6:30 tonight?
Could be.
Well, they're jockeying...
Yes, they're jockeying for Retro, today.
Yes.
We're going to probably get up at 1:00 in the morning that day.
We ought to wait until the weather gets better.
That's what I was thinking. We have enough food. We have enough hydrogen, enough oxygen, certainly enough water, enough RCS, maybe we ought to just go another day. No, LiOH: enough of that, too.
Well, let's go get the cake; I want the cake.
(Laughter)
Shoot, I know what we could do. We could take the LiOH canister and pick up the PLSS and breathe through it, at least for an hour.
What did we ever do with that exerciser that?
A-5.
You know, I think I liked that old rubber one better. Didn't get so hot. Yes, this is really almost...
Apollo 9, Houston through Ascension.
Roger, Houston. Go.
Roger. Do you want those unit vector things?
Go ahead.
Roger. I over 2, minus 0.48708; Y minus 0.09910; Z minus 0.05414. That was for the number 1 point. The number 2 point: I plus 0.30664; Y minus 0.34659; Z minus 0.18932. Over.
Roger. Minus 0.48708, minus 0.09910, minus 0.05414, plus 0.30664, minus 0.34659, minus 0.18932.
Apollo 9, Houston. Your readback correct.
Houston, I'm afraid it looked like the Amazon was cloudy again today, but we took the pictures anyway.
Okay.
And it also looked like we were slightly off the coast and not directly over the Amazon - or the mouth of the Amazon.
Okay. Understand. It's really where we wanted it to be, so...
Okay. Well, we got some Hasselblad of the mouth too.
Okay. Good.
Don't hurt yourself.
Apollo 9. Houston. Tananarive at 51.
(Laughter)
Roger. Tananarive at 51.
Every time I exercise it hurts me.
Yes, one thing I'm going to do from now on is get my exercise at handball. Tired of running around the block every
(Laughter)
(Laughter)
going to do this anymore.
going to say, "Boy, you know that Dave Scott, he was just like Bill Anders before the flight but, boy, hasn't he changed."
Boy, that's right, I'll tell you. Running around the block is agony. Think I'll even take an hour out for lunch.
I'm trying to think where I want to go on vacation.
Where or whether?
Where. Shoot, man, I - I don't want to even - Been giving up vacations for 3 years.
Goodness gracious. What's that thing stuck on that red vent hose over by the right-hand couch strut there?
Here?
No, over there, right next to David.
Oh.
Great big hunk of - Gee, it looks like it got cut off a big strap or something.
Oh, yes. It did get cut off a big - a piece of strap. It was getting in the way of the door, and I couldn't
(Laughter) One thing about you, Dave, you are really subtle.
Well, no, I just stuck it - They put those straps, and they get caught in the door, and I just cut them off.
A direct approach.
Effective.
However, why was it floating around?
I don't know; I stuck it away in that little box. It was floating around. It must have escaped to go back. Oh, I've got to do an alignment here. Hoo hoo.
Jimmy, are you under the couch?
Yes.
Are you working?
Yes. What...
Okay.
do you need?
I was going to stow some film, but -
I'll be through here in a minute.
I'm not tired, but I think that's about as hot as I dare get it.
Hey, it really makes you steady, too.
Yes, I noticed.
We noticed.
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive. Do you read well enough for three targets of opportunity update?
Houston, Apollo 9. We read you five-square. Go ahead with the updates.
Roger. Costa Rica, active volcano: geology, weather; 172 plus 57 plus 00, three frames, 10 seconds apart, on track. Target: west coast, Columbia, weather, 172 plus 59 plus 40, ten frames, 10 seconds apart, on track. Target Brazil, Rio Madera, geology, weather, 173 plus 03 plus 54, six frames, 10 seconds, on track. Over.
Okay. How do you read, Houston?
Not too well.
Okay. You want a readback, or you want to save it?
We'll save then.
Roger. It'll be at Carnarvon at 07.
Apollo 9, Houston through Carnarvon.
Roger. Go ahead.
Go ahead. Houston, Apollo 9.
Roger. I have your SO65 update, and then you can give me the targets, of opportunity if you if want.
Roger. Heady to copy.
Okay. Inertial angles 180 00 218 30, all zips, 172 46 00 172 19 00. It will be orb rate, your orb rate ball angles are the same as before: 180, 327.5, and O. The site: Toluca, Mexico, 172 52 08 05 04. And that's the only one.
Okay. And are Victor through Whiskey, or Victor through Zulu the same as before?
That is affirmative. And we are double checking them and all that and will let you know if there's any difference.
Okay, then. On the readback, 180 218 30, and all zips, 172 46 00 172 19 00, orb rate; got the local vertical ball; the target is Mexico 172 52 08 08 04.
Roger. Your readback is correct.
Okay. And I will give you those other ones also.
Okay. Go.
Okay. I didn't get where the first site was. The time was 172 57 00, three frames, 10 second Delta-T, active volcano and weather. And must be somewhere in Mexico or around there.
Affirmative. It's in Costa Rica. And about 5 days ago, the lava flow was about 3 miles by a half a mile.
Okay. See if we can't get that one. Next one was 172 59 40, target was the west coast of Columbia, ten frames at 10 second intervals; 173 03 54, Brazil, geology and weather, six frames and 10 second Delta-T. And the last two were on track. How about the volcano?
Affirmative. Volcano is on track also.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston. Go.
Roger. Since that active volcano is right on track there, I wonder if the SO65 guys would want a picture of an active in their little cameras?
We're checking on it to see.
Apollo 9, Houston through Guam.
Roger, Houston.
Roger. Apollo 9, Houston. It's pretty well weathered-in down there, but we want to see what the IR film will do on this SO65, so I have the data for that.
And I'm talking about the volcano.
You were cut out on the last one, Ron. Go ahead now.
Okay. On the volcano - it looks like it's partially - a pretty well cloud cover, but we'd still like an SO65 pass on it. I have that data.
Okay. Stand by just one.
Wilco.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. The sight is the volcano at 172 57 00 10 and 03.
Okay. Volcano 172 57 00 10 03.
Roger. Copy correct.
Houston, 9.
Houston. Go.
Roger. If you have got another map update, we'd appreciate that.
Roger
Here we go - REV 109, at 172 17 35 right ascension 15 45, longitude 123.6 east. Over.
Okay. REV 109, 172 17 35, 15 45 right ascension, and 123.6 east.
9, Houston. That's correct. And I have some block data we can start reading it up here and continue it trough ARIA.
Stand by one.
Will do.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. The area 111 4 Alpha, plus 268, minus 1600 175 29 41 2834; 112 3 Bravo, plus 332, plus 1485 176 53 09 3160; 113 3 Alpha, plus 298, plus 1440 178 32 27 3790; 114 3 Charlie, plus 223, plus 1410 180 04 48 2834; 115 Charlie Charlie, minus 268, minus 1610 182 01 49 8196; and we're just about to have LOS here. We've got a check through ARIA. So I'll it.
Roger.
ARIA 2, Houston CapCom. Go remote - VHF up.
ARIA 2. Go ahead.
Apollo 9, Houston through ARIA.
Apollo 9, Houston. I don't read you very well. How me?
I'm reading you
9 - Apollo 9, Houston. I don't read you at all for this VHF part of it. How do you read, and then when I'm not talking, how much noise is in the background?
Okay. Houston. How do you read Apollo 9 now?
Roger. You're weak but clear that time.
Okay. You are coming through about four by three, and then you do not transmit very little voice. It is some but not occassional.
Roger. Copy that. And now, Apollo 9, turn your S-band volume up. ARIA 2 remote S-band up.
Apollo 9, Houston. How do you read S-band?
Five and clear. It's beautiful Comm.
Okay. You're about four by four 4 with me. Lets continue with the block data. I have three more blocks.
Ready to copy.
Roger. Area 116 Alpha Charlie, plus 049, minus 0320 182:21:01 4982; 117 2 Charlie, plus 222, minus 0270 183:59:05 3802; 118 2 Alpha, plus 298, minus 0300 185:37:27 3239. You're pitch trim, minus 0.88; yaw, minus 1.41. Over.
Very good. Are you ready for the readback?
Affirmative. We have 3 - about 3 minutes for readback.
Okay, here it comes pretty fast. 111 4 Alpha, plus 268, minus 1600 175:29:41 2884; 112 3 Bravo, plus 332, plus 1485 176:53:09 3160; 113 3 Alpha, plus 298, plus 1440 178:32:27 3790; 114 3 Charlie, plus 223, plus 1410 180:04:08 2834. 115 Charlie Charlie, minus 268, minus 1610 182:01:49 8196; 116 Alpha Charlie, plus 049, minus 0320 182:21:01 4982; 117 2 Charlie, plus 222 minus 0270 183:59:05 3802; 118 2 Alpha, plus 298, minus 0300 185:37:27 3239. Pitch, minus 0.88; yaw, minus 1.41. Over.
Apollo 9, Houston. Beautiful job, and what kind of a noise do you hear when I'm not transmitting now?
None at all, just clean as a whistle.
Okay, real good. We're getting a little bit of noise down here, but not bad at all. We should hand over right through Hawaii and then we'll pick you up on into Hawaii.
Roger.
Hey, Houston.
Houston. Go.
Roger. That first site over Mexico was terrific; big volcano down there, and it was the only clear area in the whole thing there.
Say. Real beautiful.
We even took one extra, after the 55. In fact, two extra. You might want to log that.
Okay. We have that.
And we got some Hasselblad of it too.
Roger. Real good.
Apollo 9, Houston. About 39 seconds. We'll pick you up at Tananarive at 28.
Okay...
Okay.
Okay, 59 - 57, 00 Let's see - We've got 2 minutes to go. Oh, it's going to be clear - not clear, but at least tolerable.
Is it ever! Look at the volcanos is that bay.
I was looking at them - I wonder if they are.
Oh, yes. We want a shot of that.
How much time we got?
1 more minute.
Okay, as soon as we get through with that, take that thing off.
Let's see if I hold it.
There's a volcano in the middle of the lake down there, see that?
I saw that - with the water in it?
Yes. And a cloud over it.
Doesn't look like the time is going to be right, does it?
No, we're sure going to be over the water.
Maybe not, 30 seconds. It could be out on that peninsula.
Where's it supposed to be?
An active volcano.
Colombia?
No, no, Costa Rica.
Oh.
Go ahead and take the pictures. I don't think I'm going to see it.
I don't know where...
Maybe it's off to the side.
Yes,
I don't either little island.
Well.
There it is right now.
I'll be damned if I see any active volcano down there.
I don't either - Yes, there's some smoke down there out to the left.
Can't see that.
Yes, I do. I can see the flowing lava.
Oh, yes, there it is. Get it, Dave.
What? Oh, yes, there it is. Shoot, boy, it's way over.
Yes, we missed the darn thing. That's a shame. Okay, Dave, your next one is at 59:40.
This thing sure
Yes.
The problem is to make sure
Yes, it is; I've been watching it.
Okay, get that thing right straight up through the middle there.
157 - 59:40 and it's 1 minute away, and it's the west coast of Colombia, 10 frames, 10-second intervals, and I can call it out to you.
Okay.
I think that one's supposed to be weather, isn't it?
It's - No, I think we're taking geology. The first one and the second one are - are - geology and weather - Could be the third one - Okay, 30 seconds to go.
Oh, it might be weather, I don't know.
I thought you said it was weather.
It's a thunderstorm...
There's a beautiful thunderstorm down there. Yes. Why don't we just take it?
Yes, they really are.
I don't know. I tell you what, I would - I would take a picture of the thunderstorm probably be great.
Yes, I think so too.
Well, after a thunderstorm, it starts clearing up.
Okay, what do they want? 10 at 10-second intervals?
Yes. Okay, Dave? Mark?
Why don't you give?
Okay, I'll give you the 10-second mark and you take whichever you want.
Mark.
I don't know what - what they say on the plan.
It says the west coast of Colombia.
Why don't we start down through here?
that's what they want pictures of
Mark, 30.
You were calling 40. When was it supposed to start?
Quite a while ago.
Now what? Tell you - why...
No, go ahead. Just as fast as you can go. 10 seconds - you could have plenty of them.
Why don't we call it a day and?
I was going to say I could wind one, too, but you can't
Where's the other Hasselblad?
I don't know what else to do here
Put it away.
either way.
Put it away, what are you going to do with it?
I think there's one in there, maybe more. What do you want to do, put them away or try something different?
Let's just forget about this stuff. What's the next?
54, there's supposed to be one up here. Where's that other Hasselblad?
No, it's still stowed. Where is it?
Oh, no, it's not, Dave.
Okay, let's forget these
A-7 has superwide angle; that's all it's got. No other camera in there, Dave. Oh, shoot, I put it back in B-3, yes.
It's not all the way around, Dave. This thing is - yes, but this thing is sprung.
The only other possibility is it was still in the magazine, and then, by forcing it, it just goofed up the camera, too.
Let's put the SO 65 away - Why don't you put this back in there? SO 65 away.
You want me to get that 16-millimeter bracket out, Dave?
Not particularly, Rusty. That's not much of a good idea, but
Okay - Got that out yet?
I think they want it here.
Oh!
should be turned back and stowed in the - turned back and stowed in the wide angle...
Yes, it is; that's got a dark spot I think.
Different MAG, huh?
Yes.
Unfortunate, unfortunate.
Looks like we're going to have to break out that other roll of film.
What magazine is that, Jim?
one-sixth of that, Dave. Did you click it after you took it off?
The slot on the
Okay, I put that extra in B-3.
Maybe that'll hold.
How much to that SO 65? I guess we don't know.
Yes, it's sitting right here.
I mean when we get through taking SO 65 pictures, we could use those, huh?
about used all up; we're already up what, about 85 or 90 on them, aren't we?
One of them only has 100 and
One of them has nearly 200...
Where is the procedures book? It's in there. See if I can -
Yes.
You all quit taking SO 65 pictures, and we wouldn't have to load it so much.
No, we won't, something.
(Laughter) It's a good idea, though.
of the photo - photo plan or is that in there?
Yes, it's in there.
One has 140, one has 170, one has 100, and 170. Gees.
You want me to take another 100 SO 65?
We better, Dave; we're not going to have anything to do.
(Laughter)
We have roughly 225 pictures; we ought to save -
Yes.
2 full days of No, 1 full day of
every other day, wouldn't it?
We're up to 184 it's there right now, isn't it?
We ought to ask them what time we are supposed to, because things are obviously getting screwed up on time.
Well, it would be nice to know when they're not going to let us sleep through, so that we could get to bed early that night.
and want to sleep late, too (laughter). There's nothing to do when we get up.
Really?
Get up at 184:20 - The first thing we do is align the IMU; at 188 then we unstow SO 65, eat, take colored pictures, go to drifting flight, and go back to bed.
Okay, we go to bed at 198 - and get up at 2 more workdays
2 more workdays?
They're not really workdays.
Another 25 minutes, we better limit ourselves 25 pictures we got to take
While that is out, Dave, let's see if the damn thing.
the right way.
How does that differ from what we've been doing?
Oh, well! One step of progress 10 years from now can get out.
Hey, Jim?
Yes?
You got the DAP running?
Yes.
How about?
Yes, as a matter of fact, let's try some.
What?
You got the DAP on?
No.
Oh, the DAP's turned off?
What do you want?
Let's just try the Minimum Impulse down here and see if it works.
It worked!
Yes, as a matter of fact, that's right, that one B-3.
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive.
Hey, that works good.
That may not be the MAG you stow in it.
Yes, I was going to say, maybe we ought to stow one of the Mags, and stow those others, that will leave more room over there for the
Boy, I - I made a drastic mistake this morning - when I brushed my teeth and put my bag away, and now I don't have anything to drink water in.
The water is not - really isn't bad today.
It isn't?
No, it's not bad at all; it's the best I've ever tasted, which isn't saying anything. I had a couple big drinks and it's not too gassy and it's chlorine doesn't have any gas at all.
No, just bubbles gassy.
Now, I'll try it.
Hey, did you kick that?
Apollo 9, Houston through Tananarive.
Go, Houston; Apollo 9.
Go, Houston. This is Apollo 9.
CapCom, uplinking properly through Tananarive.
Try them one more time. Sounds like...
Roger. And, 9, I've got some four more target updates here, but I can't hear you at all yet.
Okay, Houston.
We're reading you reasonably well. How are you reading us now?
Roger. I can't make it out. Do you read me good enough to read up the updates.
Yes, we do.
Do you? Here's the log
Go ahead, Houston, with the update.
Go ahead, Houston, with your updates.
Okay. Apollo 9, Houston. Here we go. Bonin Islands; weather, 174 plus 01 plus 14, four frames, 10 seconds, on track. Galapagos Islands; weather, 174 plus 32 plus 38, four frames, 8 seconds, on track. Lima, Peru; weather, oceanography, 174 37 03, 18 frames, 12-second intervals, on track. The next one is in your rest period and not required unless you can get it. Japan volcanos; geology, meteorology, 175 36 07, seven frames, 30-second intervals, at north 32 degrees. Over.
Roger, Houston.
How do you read?
Roger. Got you now.
Okay. 174 01 14, weather, four frames, 10 seconds, on track. 174 32 38, Galapagos, weather, four frames, 8 seconds, on track. 174 37 03, Lima, weather and oceanography, 18 frames, 12 seconds, on track. 175 36 07, Japan, volcanos, weather, seven frames, 30 seconds, north 32 degrees.
Apollo 9, Houston. Readback correct.
Okay, Houston, be advised that on that last pass, down across South America, they had a camera failure.
The can was on the 70-millimeter Hasselblad and we've lost about 50 frames of film on a jammed pack.
Roger. One pack is jammed; 50 frames are lost.
You hear that, Rusty? Japan.
Huh?
33 frames yet. The last target was Japan.
How low does that thing get?
How about that? We got that at 0, 1, 3, 4.
What?
We go across -
No, right over Manila - Let me get my
(Laughter)
Oh, yes. I didn't think we'd been far enough north to get to Singapore, have we?
Not really.
it's 2 hours
Better write them all down here for tomorrow. 172
No - I'm sorry, no, no, no, no. great big I think of somewhere in that ballpark - I think it's right in the middle. Big
Some of those pictures we took of the Cairo Airport and those other - the Houston Airport
possibly with a 75-millimeter lens, I could
I hear you, but - I hear you talking, but I doubt - I don't want to put too much faith in the camera. You know, if you get that to work, that means that you got to get the background out - that means that you come out at the right spot at the right time.
Three or four things recorded on the recorder, so I don't think
Whoo, that's terrible. Whooee.
What's coming up now?
We're going right across Sumatra, and we'll go right across the Philippines.
Is it light out?
No, but it should be shortly.
Okay, there are only three unused film packs in A-7, right now.
Where are the rest of them, or is that all we have?
That's it. Two C-IN's and one C-EX.
Is that the stuff for the 70 millimeter or the 16 millimeter?
Yes, but we got a bunch of partially used 16 millimeter. There's a lot of that left.
Where are they?
It's strewn all over. We got a bunch of that, too. Look at B-3.
But one we want to save for entry.
Yes, we want to save one full film package.
What are you doing, Davey?
Well, I'm fixing to
Are we going to do the daylight?
that 70-millimeter camera and take couple more pictures of you.
You're - you're the only guy who had your picture taken.
Hey, that's right
Whew, is that a pretty, pretty picture. That's really pretty - Whooee. Beautiful. Isn't it beautiful? The sunrise Gee!
You got a malfunction procedure camera, Dave?
No, not
Oh, you ought to see really something.
Whooee, that's pretty.
We've got - we've got three in here. We've got one here that hasn't had any taken out of it yet.
Excuse me, I didn't - I had my helmet on. You said you had one up there that - that what?
We have two of these, completely full. And then we have some partials in the C-EX.
chance to use the filter. Ha!
Hey, how about that?
Anybody explained to you how to use it, yet?
No,
Will you guys please give me a description on how all the pieces for the optics work?
Oh, sure, we'd be glad to do that.
Now, watch your eye, we can't afford to lose our navigator at this point.
Yes (laughter).
No, I - I've got the filter on. Okay, I don't know very much about it, but I can find the stars.
Can you see those platform.
Don't burn a hole in the side of
One of his eyeball lens. Here.
No, you don't need an eyeball.
There's an with the eyeball.
I don't know what the vectors are for this thing.
Well, you don't need the - vectors; just throw it in the computer, Dave.
You do?
Yes, number -
Yes, it sure is, Rusty. You're right. Here, I've got it; you're right. Here it is, 48, 49. Whew! That's a big yellow ball!
Yes, but I can see the spots on it.
Yes, I can see sunspots. How about that.
Ooh, out of the field of view.
Where did it go?
It's going to my right, which means we're rolling left - and stays right, we need to roll left. That's it, that's it.
That means you're not going to get your picture in Manila, Dave.
Oh,
Hey, listen, where are we over right now, because I can see land down there. Could this be Australia, by chance?
I don't know.
Where were those - what were those update times?
I missed them; is that the one?
Yes. No, that's the one I'm talking about, the next opportunity.
Boy, they're really off.
Oh, my God, we already passed it. -
Hey, Rusty, that must be Manila down there.
Where??
Yes,
Yes, I see the Philippines.
Damn, I wish I had seen that. That's my old home.
I think we'll see it tomorrow. Old is a Filipino.
These really are volcano islands at 142. Which is going to be 173 and 57.
We're just viewing a volcano island?
No, I don't see any down there, Rusty.
Maybe the camera just
I don't know, you had the only good camera that works. Oh, it's right here LEB
Okay,
Hey,, I can report that I used my
Oh, no, it's coming up in another minute, Jim.
Apollo 9, Houston through Guam.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 9.
Roger. We have the state vector to shoot up to you, if you bare P00 in Accept.
Okay. Stand by one. Finally got the old sun filter on, and it works pretty good. I can count about 15 sun spots.
Oh, okay. We can get this state vector over Hawaii if you're using it. No problem.
Okay. Why don't we do that?
Okay.
I'm learning about the Sun.
9, Houston. I've got some more things I'd like to discuss with you here, though. And we're requesting both O2 cryo heaters to Auto; that's oxygen cryo heaters to Auto.
Okay. Do you want that done right now.
Sometime; yes.
Okay. Both O2 cryo heaters to Auto at this time.
Roger. And cryo plan is essentailly the same as the last two nights, except that we'll have H2 tank fan on.
Okay. You're going to let the oxygen and the hydrogen pressure dribble down to between 190 and 200, and when we go to bed, we want H2 tank 2 fan on.
That's affirmative. And the same type of powerdown: IMU Standby, SCS electronics power Off; Auto RCS Off; Remote control power Off; Trans control power Off; everything else powered up.
Okay. Very good. And let's see, what our heaters - You want inverter 3 on Main A, also?
Affirmative. Just before you go to - hit the rack.
Okay. Fine.
And, if you have to purge fuel - purge to get the H2 down, it may take a long time to get it down just through fuel cell 2, so you can use your discretion and purge all three if you want to.
Okay. Thank you.
9, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. We would like a readout on your battery manifold pressure, systems test 4 Alpha. And have you been venting periodically or not.
No, we haven't been venting it periodically.
8.2 volts.
Roger. Don't vent it; just give us a readout then.
Okay. 1.2 volts.
Roger. Copy.
And we don't come across another thing.
Nothing at all.
I don't know, there's a biggest slice of Pacific -
Apollo 9, Houston. When I called you about the FDAI Select and orb rate, was the attitude Sep switch in GDC or IMU?
Oh, I'm not sure. We've reconfigured a few times. Right now the attitude Sep switch is in IMU.
Okay. Understand it's in IMU now, and it more than likely was at that time.
Yes. That's probably right. Yes.
And, 9, Houston. We'll have another ARIA check at 06.
Okay. We'll have a Comm check with ARIA. 06.
Okay.
so you can tell they're yours. If you mark them, you can.
Oh, yes. What does it look like through your sextant.
Hey, come here and look, Jim.
Are they still there?
Yes, they're still there.
Yes, I'd like to see them, too.
oh boy, these are really getting to me.
This thing is fairly loose. It doesn't fit on very good.
That's the whole sun, Rusty?
See the sunspot?
That's looking really smooth, huh?
Look down at the bottom; you can see the at the bottom.
Sure are smooth.
over to the left at the bottom.
Yes.
at it before I lose it. Why don't you drive the boat for a while?
approaching something, Dave?
Yes, it should be approaching - No, there is some There is on the other one all the way in, all the way out yesterday and I
It's a little difficult to mark these actually in the middle of the orbit.
Yes. It's almost the same - Well, Jupiter is, but Jupiter is difficult to figure out exactly where the center of it is. Because it spills into that little part of the reticle.
ARIA 2, Houston CapCom. Remote VHF up.
That's really neat, isn't it?
Yes, it is. I'd like to see the Moon through that. What do you have -
I - I'll tune it in for you when you get back; the Moon's pretty. What does it do to it; it not really - I mean, it looks just like it does...
Apollo 9, Houston through ARIA 2. VHF.
Houston, Apollo 9. How do you read?
Hey, that's beautiful this time. How me?
You're about the same. It sounds like a little bit of...
of motorboating...
a little dirty but you're clear, though.
Okay. Very good. While we have you here, I have a consumables update if you'd like to copy that.
Okay. Stand by one.
That field of view, Jim, is getting out of the
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. At 173 43 10 43 12 47 13 44 13 305 22 32 28 39. And I've got some notes here for you.
Okay. You're evidently cutting in and out because I ended up with one button left and no button holes.
Okay. We're just about ready to switch to S-band. We'll try S-band now; so S-band volume UP. S-band volume UP, and ARIA 2 remote S-band.
Apollo 9, Houston. How do you read S-band?
You're weak on S-band. How do you read us?
Roger, About the same. A little weaker on S-band.
Okay. Try it - we just - We're back into the noise depletion.
Okay. Apollo 9. I think it's a function of how the stuff gets from us to you and not from ARIA to you.
See that little hole out there? It's off to my left. That little spot of green water out there. See that hole in the clouds over there?
Yes, oh yes.
Apollo 9, Houston. How do you read now?
That's a little better, Houston.
Okay. That's a lot better. What didn't you get on the consumables there?
You're breaking up pretty bad, Houston.
Okay. Understand I'm breaking up pretty bad. We'll pick you up Hawaii about 12, in 2 minutes.
Houston, if you read us, you're coming through very, very garbled. We're unable to read you.
Apollo 9, Houston. Understand I am garbled.
That thing is really out in the middle of nowhere, wasn't it? There's another little bitty hunk of green water out underneath one cloud there. I couldn't see if there was any land there or not.
figure where that ARIA was?
Yes, out there all by itself (laughter).
Apollo 9, Houston through Hawaii.
Roger, Houston. We're reading you five-square now. That last check wasn't too good on the S-band.
Roger. We concur on that also. I was reading you most of the time, but it was way down in the mud.
Yes. We could tell you were talking, but we were unable to read anything on the S-band that time. I think I read a couple of words one time, and it degraded again.
Okay. And request P00 in Accept, if you haven't done it. We don't quite have the data yet.
Okay. We have P00 in Accept.
Roger.
And I guess you read that I ran out of - Actually, I had couple of slots left over when we finished that consumables update.
Okay. Before I start it again, as soon as we get good data lock on here, I'd like to have you take the attitude set switch to GDC to Standby.
What are you asking us to do?
Standby for attitude set switch to GDC.
Okay.
Okay. We've got a keyhole there, so I'll go ahead and read up the consumables plan again. It's at 173 bourn 43 10 43 12 47 13 44 13 305 22 32 28 39.
Roger. 173, 43 10 43 12 47 13 44 13 305 22 32 28 39.
Roger. That's correct, and I've got some notes here.
Okay. Ready.
Okay. Tomorrow we will use quad Bravo and Charlie; Alpha and Delta will be off just as today. SPS Delta-V capability 1143 feet per second. SPS burn time 40 seconds. Service module DAP redlines 25 31 34 34. Over.
Okay. Tomorrow you want us to use B and C; Alpha and Delta off as today. SPS Delta-V capability 1143 feet per second. SPS burn time capability 40 seconds. Service nodule DAP redlines 25 31 34 34.
Roger. That's correct.
We're about LOS here. Redstone at 17.
Apollo 9, Houston through Redstone.
Apollo 9, Houston through Redstone.
Roger, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. Just clean up a few items around here. I guess you still owe us the waste water dump, and you know there's no battery charge tonight. And you still owe us the standard spacecraft readout, powerdown readout, and dosimeter reading.
And, Apollo 9, Houston, I guess the canister change. Just a reminder there.
Houston.
Houston. Go.
Roger. The CDR has a dosimeter reading of 3115.
Roger. Copy.
LMP is 8016.
Roger. Copy 8016.
And 6116.
Hey, Houston. Did you get the third one: 6116?
9, Houston. Say again.
Roger. The CMP is 6116.
Roger. 6116.
Apollo 9, Houston. Request attitude set switch to GDC and give us a Mark.
Roger. Have set switch going to GDC on my Mark. 3, 2,1.
Mark.
Roger. Thank you.
What are you guys doing with that switch?
Okay. We've got our TM readout on an IMU pitch resolver that showed a little bit of change, and it's strictly a TM thing that goes into our computer here, and it's a functional whether your switches are.
Oh, okay.
Nothing in the spacecraft at all.
All right. Thank you.
And Clair is sitting up there in the back and she says on the basis of your rendition of "Happy Birthday," the Bay Area Chorus would like to extend an invitation to the crew to audition for a trio at a spring concert.
Oh boy.
That's what I said too.
Wonder what kind of food they serve.
(Laughter)
Hey, Houston, you through with the computer?
Affirmative. Computer is yours.
Okay.
And just to verify that you got the word. No battery charging tonight.
Real fine. No battery charging tonight.
Roger. Thank you.
Houston. We know that you had a couple of Master Alarms last night during your waste water dump, and we're trying to confirm that these were due to a high O2 flow. Can you confirm that?
Roger. That's correct.
Roger. Thank you.
We've got so many Master Alarms in here it looks like the simulator.
Oh great.
Houston, you still with us?
Houston. Roger. Go.
Okay. Service module A, B, C, D: 53 55 49 53; BATT C and pyro A, B: 369 371 371.
Roger. Copy. Thank you.
We're just about LOS. Haw a good night.
Okay. We can give you some more stuff bore.
Go.
Okay. 6 Charlie is 5.0. All the rest are Full Scale High or the injector tests.
Roger. And confirm omni Bravo if possible.
Omni Bravo.
Okay, Houston. This is Apollo 9. We're going for awhile so if you want to give us a call.
Okay. Will do. Thank you very much.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Apollo 9, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Hey, Apollo 9. Houston here. You rest during the night; the night watchman is on duty.
Are you the night watchman on duty?
Roger.
We noticed when we went out of range that your DSE probably wasn't running, so we'd like for you to switch the uplink telemetry command switch to Reset and then back to Normal.
Al, say that one again. You say you want the up telemetry command set to Reset and then back to Normal. When do you want that.
Roger. Apollo 9. That's affirmative, and you can do that now.
Okay. Going to Command Reset and back to Normal.
Roger.
Hello, there, Mr. Worden.
Hello, Mr. McDivitt.
How are you?
I'm fine, sir. How are you?
I'm fine, too.
Are you ready for
Say again.
Houston, Apollo 9.
Apollo 9, Houston. Go.
Roger, Houston. Apollo 9 here. I just wanted to call you and tell you we had a very nice view of Hawaii as we went across it.
Very Good.
Why don't you go ahead and remind him...
We tried to take a few pictures for the folks down on the ground.
Roger, Jim. Hey, did you guys put inverter 3 on Main A as part of the powerdown?
No. We haven't done that yet.
Okay. We just wanted to remind you of it.
Okay. We are going to do it now, Al, so we won't forget it.
Okay, Rusty.
And we were just talking about - We have to turn the tank 2 hydrogen fan on and to turn that invertor on yet.
All right.
what the hydrogen looks like.
Roger. Understand. Guess you will purge a little more, too?
Yes. The pressure is way up today. It still reads about 212, 222, or 274.
Understand that is because we were real good to you and let you sleep an extra 3 hours this morning.
Hey, you guys are so good, I can't believe it.
Well, we are thinking only of you.
I know. And we are thinking only of you.
I'm going to start calling you sweet lips.
No thanks.
You wouldn't call him sweet lips if you could see him!
Hey, Al, would you do me a favor?
Sure.
Call my kids and tell them that I'm really growing a fancy beard for them.
Okay. I'll do that.
Tell them I still can't bring it home for them, because I have to shave it off when we get on board the ship. But tell them I'm going to have some pictures of it for them.
Okay. I understand. I understand that shaving it off, too. You're a real full-blown Colonel up there.
Got to shave that beard off before you get onboard, huh?
No; not before I get onboard, after I get onboard. I have enough beard to be proud of; I don't have to shave mine off ahead of time. But it is anything but fancy.
Don't want to mention any names, do you.
Yes.
Apollo 9, Houston. Guess you are going over the hill. See you guys in the morning.
Okey-dokey. Night-night.
Night.
Night-night.
What time is morning, Al?
Just a second; let me check. It's getting a little confused. It looks like it will be 184 plus 20.
Good for you, Rusty. I'd like to know also. Boy, oh boy.
It looks like it will be 184 plus 20.
Okay. Thank you.
How does that compare with the flight plan?
Just about right.
Let's see, we're on revolution about 111.
Ooh! (Laughter)
God! We've got 150-some odd to go.
No.
I mean total.
Oh, boy, round and around and around and around. Hey, I tell you, I'm all for shooting up the film tomorrow and then going into deorbit.
I'm with you.
You've been ready for that since we got up here.
No, I changed my mind in the middle.
I'm ready for that 350-pound cake.
We're going to go around until it's time to come down.
Yes, you're right. Be stern, Jim.
What?
We've got to give you some opposition, so you can exercise your authority.
I've got to start practicing P37.
If all goes well, you won't even have to touch P37.
I know it, but I like to practice it anyway.
Whoopseday!
It looks like they gave us about 20 minutes for initial entry PREP and stowage.
(Laughter) Listen, we better have a lot of that done the night before.
Oh, yes. Well, the day before, we got nothing -
What, what's -
We've got only 8 hours until they wake us up, Jim.
So - go to sleep.
Why don't you start purging some of that hydrogen in?
I was hoping you'd say that. Going to start this thing.
You can tell Schweickart, he is always in favor of purges.
I got to do something operational.
The big twister.
Hey, we've done a lot of things, you know it?
You can tell by reading the flight plan?
Yes. Look at all that jazz. All those little black squares. We don't have very many little black squares to fill.
What little black squares?
Those things to get done.
Let's see. Oh, oh, I see what you mean.
flight plan.
Yes.
I wish we could get a couple more of those.
Couple more days?
No, these!
That'd be a good one to frame, you know it.
It'd be a good one to frame.
Last of the earth-orbital flights.
Well, I doubt that.
Or, the first AAP flight.
(Laughter)
That's what it is.
The last?
Yes.
One fuel cell!
Ihoo! What the hell is that?
What you got?
It's a circular formation in the cloud. It's a low cloud, not like a thunderstorm. See it over there? No, no, it's over here, Dave. Let me - It may he - be too high for you to see.
Oh, yes what do we see?
Kind of weird.
Hey, I think that's worth a weather picture right there.
I do too.
Yes, I agree.
Could you see it, Jim?
Yes.
That's worth a picture.
I think so, too.
There you are, a perfect spot. You get a pretty perspective if you just look at it. I can't really tell what the -
Yes, it is hard, isn't it - to tell?
Yes.
It's the only one around, too, like it.
You get my? The LEB, okay.
Let's see. We got the water dumped, canister changed; we got - We don't have to chlorinate tonight, do we?
Yes, we do.
Yes, we do have to.
We doing that every night now?
Yes.
I'll be. Getting close to running out, I guess we got to
Late afternoon clouds (coughing). You can pick up a lot of those, can't you? Really weird.
you know it feels like right here.
Oh, really - it never has quit hurting?
You know, it's very funny. It's a very calm, steady feeling, you know. It really hurt. It's just like it's going, you know, like when I get down, it's really going to be stiff or something.
We're not going to get to South America - before it's dark.
You got it all hot again?
Yes.
Let's put it up on the hatches. It cools off a little faster.
You got to blow on it?
Dave.
Huh?
Watch it, it's hot...
spot.
How'd you like to exercise before sleeping?
8 days.
You know, if we ever really get a space station like in "2001" up here, it'd be a real good
Yes.
Wonder how long that'll be?
A long, long time. They could probably keep me out.
Jim, can I move some direction to help you?
No, I'm just cleaning off the hoses, Rusty.
Why don't we - What's that?
He just moved a hose.
I guess we got used to listening to all that noise all day. How about some dinner? Anybody for some chow?
Yes, I'll have some dinner. What are you cooking?
Oh, I'll cook you up some chop suey. Open a can and all that stuff again. How about that?
I'd sure like to have some chop suey, I'll tell you.
350-pound...
Oh, my goodness, I got a big screw out of something that time. Check the windows. Sure enough.
Oh, are they?
There's a hole right there, what's that? Oh, that's not where it goes, nothing goes there anyway.
They're all on, Jim.
Good. It probably came off of some critical spot then.
Yes, like the ECS or...
Maybe that came out of the telescope.
Hey, there you go.
Hey, you want some more variety up there?
I don't care. Incidentally, we didn't have a glitch today in the telescope.
Not a single one, huh?
Not one, it...
Hey, Dave.
behaved very well. What? Is that a new game?
I tell you, though, Dave; I looked over the reentry-day timeline and we get up and we're up for a while and then we're cleaning up and then one night pass goes by and then the next night pass, you do P51. When you get out of bed, you jump up and you do a P51.
Alright. You don't even have to tell me to do that.
I know it (laughter), but I want to make sure there's no doubt in either one of our minds.
Yes, you're right. As a matter of fact, I might do one the night before.
Hey, Dave (laughter)...
Hey, why don't you do a nominal P52, too - while you're at it?
Hey, you know, I might do that.
Yes, sure. That'd make it a lot easier. Don't have to - do a nominal P52 for - We don't have a Retro, yes, we'll have a Retro.
Yes, if we clean up, take that last day to get all stowed, everything done, go to bed, hop up, eat, do the P51.
No, you got that wrong - hop up...
You do the P51 and you eat (laughter).
You do the P51 and you eat (laughter).
You guys eat while I do the P51.
Right and we'll stow while you eat. You can eat and keep us out of gimbal lock.
Okay.
Yes, I'd like to get that mother all fixed and then get into gimbal lock and then have the shaft hang up.
Hey, you know what I'd like to do, the day before? I'd like to do a GDC align - if you have enough fuel. If you have enough fuel left over where we're...
it doesn't take any fuel.
It doesn't? I'd really like to see a couple of those.
See if it works, huh?
See if it works and also
Right. How about some more food here? We have lots of food left.
Let me be selective, since you're offering.
Yes, what do you want?
you know another thing we ought to do?
Get out the menu and pick what you want for dinner.
do an alignment...
Oh, Jimmy, you're still doing it.
Gee, I'm sorry about that, sports fans, but that smells just like pure hydrogen to me. I wonder how much hydrogen you need in here before it reaches explosive combustion.
Okay, Davey, I'll try not.
You know I wouldn't be a bit surprised if that isn't it.
Jimmy, what days have we got over there?
We've got everything from 7 on up, Rusty.
On up to how far?
Oh, let me see what the last one is - 10, 11.
Okay.
As a matter of fact, tomorrow we don't have a burn.
Tomorrow, we don't have a what?
A burn.
Yes?
How about letting me do the P51 with the COAS tomorrow morning?
Okay.
Okay? Would you let me do that?
Yes, provided we don't have to do any landmark tracking. If we have to do landmark tracking, you've got to do a good one.
Right, right.
We just do SO 65, you don't have to do it over.
Oh, no; you -
You can do a good P52...
Let me do a P51, P52 with the COAS; and then a P52 with the optics. Okay? Would you let me do that?
Yes. Sounds like a good experiment. What do you want, Rusty? Which meal?
I'm looking.
Oh. Hey! I see one that has grape punch in it.
Oh, we're running out of those things.
Which things...
Yes, that's the terrible thing.
which days are you looking at?
We have - This right here is - day 7 through 11.
Oh, you got all that in there?
Yes. I think I'm going to get that out before I have it all out here on the deck with me. As a matter of fact, I'm almost tempted to go through here and take you - take out all the drinks.
Hey, I'd like a day 8, meal B.
Day 8, meal B. Coming up. Hey, that's the first one on the end of the string. There you are. How about that for service?
That's pretty good. What's that green stuff in it?
Some kind of soup.
Pea soup.
Huh?
Pea soup.
I don't like that.
Well, why did you stick it in there?
Huh? What?
Why did you stick it in there? (Laughter) Hey, that was pretty tricky.
The hand is quicker than the eye!
Let me see that (laughter).
That's grape.
You ought to see my kids when I do my coin trick. They think that's great.
Boy, I tell you. There's nothing on here that looks good as this breakfast.
Well, how about a breakfast? What do you want?
Well, hell, I don't want to eat you guys' breakfast.
Oh, hell, I don't care what I have for breakfast.
I don't either. Just as long as I have my hot chocolate, you can have all the rest of it.
Well, okay. I'll give you your hot chocolate out of the breakfast. How about a - a day - Hey, you got a day 7, huh? Day 7, meal A? I had that this morning, but I'll take it again now.
Okay. It may not be a day 7, meal A, because we may have eaten all those this morning. Let me see. Meal B, meal C. No, the earliest I have is one day 7, meal B. There's a day 8, meal A. 9, 10, 11.
I'll tell you what. I'll take a day 8, meal A.
Day 8, meal A coming up.
Where are the? Let me have the
Here, I can get them.
You get them?
Here, Dave and Rusty. Got grape juice in it, even.
Yes. Got hot chocolate in it, too.
Yes, I'm going to give you that.
Oh, you are a good fellow!
Let me look at the menu. Let's see what I want.
Okay.
I don't think there's anything on the whole menu I want. Just take whatever is least - least undesirable.
That's the way I feel, but it's got to go. Oh! That 350-pound cake! I wonder if it's chocolate?
I tell you. I don't like cake very much, but that still sounds good. a 350-pound pie would interest me more.
But chocolate cake with ice cream? Ahh! I could eat and eat and eat.
Boy, I tell you. Jimmy's suggestion of pizza and beer sounds best tonight. Although lasagna and beer sounds pretty good, too. Chop suey doesn't sound quite as good as lasagna.
Let's see what else sounds good. How about some some lobster?
Ooh! Yes. Doesn't that sound good to you?
Yes. That sounds good.
Hey, I think I might try this sausage. You say the sausage is good, huh?
Yes, I think it's pretty good, Rusty. It's mild and it's crumbly. You know, it's got a firm kind of taste to it, and it feels good.
Highly recommended. Duncan and Hines.
Can't find it.
Huh?
In front of you. Here it is.
Mike boom. Your mike boom-boomed.
Jim must have
You mean - Oh, shit. I forget which day I was go to get. You have a different figure than I do.
Okay, here you are.
We have two more.
I'll just need one of them.
What?
While Rusty's sitting there waiting, let me get one of these.
Waiting in line at the watering hole. Hey, you know, Jim? I drank a bunch of water out of that gun today. And I got a lot of gas.
Did you?
Yes, as soon as I drank, as a matter of fact, I could feel it rumbling around down there. And I haven't been using that gun; I did it today because...
I haven't used it either, because - but I used it today, because it tasted so good.
Yes, it's pretty good, but you know today, we haven't had as many drinks
Yes.
You know?
I'm tempted to go through here and open these things up and take all the drinks out and put them in another bag.
I think that would be a good idea.
Alright, let's do that, then. I'll open up all the food - well, not all of it - but I'll open up this whole box, and take all the drinks out and put them in this third bag.
Okay.
without a drink.
That's fine, Jim.
About 10 bags - soup, salad, beef, vegetable, drink, cookies.
Oh, boy, I'll bet - I'll bet I've lost - When I get down from this flight, I bet I've lost - 12 pounds, or more.
I wouldn't be surprised. At all.
And I bet I gain about 3 minutes flight.
Hey, you got a long time
Yes, I don't know.
This is good.
Yes.
Anybody ever try?
Yes, I did on the ground.
when I put the water in
Gosh, that's hot water. It's really good.
Whoo! That stuff's good.
Okay,
No, I don't believe I've heard that one
You - you need your sunglasses in here, Dave? (Laughter) It's dark outside?
Hey, that's downtown.
That's down somewhere!
Yes. Las Vegas.
Yes.
I know what I'll do. Go up to Las Vegas for a couple of days.
Hey, that does sound like a good idea. Let's go to Las Vegas.
Do you want to?
That's probably all you're going to get off is a weekend.
Oh, boy. Hell, I could spend a year out there.
I could go lie on a beach for weeks.
Yes, me too.
And go skiing for a week.
Week, hell! I'm going to take a month.
Yes.
I'm going to take off, and then I'm going to retire.
I thought you weren't going to retire.
I changed my mind.
(Laughter)
I picked a lousy crew. I just can't put up with you.
Oh. I was going to volunteer to retire, Jim, so you can stay.
Oh, not!
So was I.
(Laughter)
(Laughter)
10 days, man; I've done my share.
(Laughter) That's how I feel like. I've contributed to the cause of the space program.
Yes, I kind of feel the same way, I - I tell you wonder; it takes you so long to adapt.
Yes, that's really - I think
Yes, I'd gather - I gather from the remarks that you're making - No, I really feel right now, because I this morning. No. It never - it never even dawned on me. You know, we talked about this the other day, and I noticed - I thought you were eating pretty good the last couple of days. So I sort of forgot about it.
Well, I - I know
That's true.
Yes, I think you're right.
Like what?
like yesterday. Is that you've been eating?
No.
Hey, you know what? I - I'll tell you. What I really think we ought to have is some soup in here.
Yes, I think so, too.
Terrible! Say, you couldn't get out and buy Lipton's soup...
That's right! Because I normally...
What you really need is some way of - the basis of having some container that you could put the stuff into mixed with water - de-aerated (laughter)...
Yes, that ought to fix it, de-aerate it.
They could do that.
I wish that - They could do that? thing with a bleed on it?
What's that?
They'd have to Hey, you could have a piston on it or something. Put a paper
Oh, yes, they had a system like that. Designed it I wonder if you couldn't have a mechanical de-aerator in here, though?
You mean a?
No, I mean - I mean - If you let it set, to get the big bubbles in it, use centrifugal force with a piston - a heavy piston, to somehow or other - allow the stuff at the top to bleed through. All the air's going to be on the top, you could get a on it; put a stopper valve on it?
if you stop it. pure water
Like this a little centrifugal force thing.
Yes, I wasn't trying to
That's really how to do it, now.
Yes, I mean, increases the reliability of your - the water supply of anything.
get all the air out?
Yes, but Dave, ours was nothing at all like this. We didn't have fuel cells; we just had a regular old water.
We had fuel cells in our
stuff coming out of hydrogen.
I'm going to try these sausages.
I think you'll like them. I'm afraid you'll like them.
(Laughter)
Oh, I was just kidding.
Probability's with you, Dave.
No, I was just kidding.
I noticed that.
Well, I can get any of it down. There's nothing here that bothers me one way or the other. Hey, guess what I found up here?
What?
Hot chocolate!
Oh, good. They're what?
Yes, I put it there.
We took it out
I would've guessed, you
What?
No, they're pretty good. They're pretty good.
No?
Makes it look like a screen.
Whoohoo!
You know, the only bite-size food I like is these cheese sandwiches. I really like those.
Matter of fact, the beef's going downhill. I don't like anymore.
(Singing)
Man, I'll never live that one down. Singing a song. Heck, every time I start to sing in church, three rows ahead turn around and look at me.
chasing rabbits? (Laughter) God damn, I though (laughter). Boing!
Save some of this stuff for the last day, so it'll be all -
Why don't we give Rusty a bag?
Water. Water.
feel any better, Rusty?
Hey, Dave, you want
Drink water. A - I - I'm so thirsty, I just - I just want to gulp down some water.
Hey, drink exercise.
Baby, I got it.
Well, we tried, Jim (Laughter)
Acapulco. I think I'll go to Acapulco for about a week. Las Vegas for a couple of days. Colorado for a week.
What? No, Acapulco doesn't cost you You ever been there, Jim? Sure, but when reservations.
This is good.
I thought you might like that. I was afraid you might like that.
It tastes like sausage Tastes a little bit like
I don't like that anymore.
You know what the difference was? Especially when I'm through There's a lot more to it.
Boy, I'll tell you, You got the survival, say you got the survival It's about 4 or 5 days, I guess. A couple of survival rations and that's all; and a rab - a live rabbit and you and cook him - About 30 miles altogether, something like that, you have to go through and all that. It'd be nice if you got back - We did it all year round, but I - I
I'd come in sort of quiet now. Then loud "Oh, God damn it, I'm all around here "
You got 4 years in there. Hell, no, man, if you can do that all the time.
God damn it, we're way up here, this time. Oh, we're going by
Say, we are going to come out right over Zanzibar.
Are we really?
Yes,
Look at
Oh, golly! Say! This is fabulous!
Where?
Oh, boy! Man!
Lord!
Beautiful! Spectacular! Golly!
You do?
Yes,
That's just fabulous!
I know it. That's what I had you for.
So, you're doing it for nothing.
Yes, that's I'll bet that's one of the prettiest pictures in the whole, you know it, Jim.
I'm surprised.
Boy, that was worth waiting up for.
If these pictures come out, I'm not going to have enought walls in my house to hang them all up on. What is it, Jim? coming over the Himalayas
I can - I can see the ground pretty good. Huh!
I can't see anything I recognize.
Boy, you sure, Jim.
I flew right by it in a B-17.
I flew right by it in a B-17.
You did? fly the Hump in World War II.
I didn't think there was a
Anything we could fly with.
Maybe just a little bitty
Okay, we're about 450, I think, Jim.
What's going on, Jim? Gees.
Hey, were you saving this in the corner up here, Rusty?
I like to sort of clean up at the end of the day quick clean.
No, there's a couple more in the other one here pound a day
About 50 feet?
Ooh! get too hot for the throat.
