Houston, Apollo 15.
Hello, Endeavour, this is Houston.
Good morning, Joe.
Good morning, Troops. Has the Sun come up, up there?
Oh, yes; very bright all the way. Ready to give you our status here.
Roger, Dave. We're standing by.
Okay. We all figure we had 8 hours. Dave figures he got his in about three; Alfred, two; and about five.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Stand by on your report. You're broken up at the moment, please.
Dave, this is Houston again. Go ahead. Our comm is not so noisy now.
Joe, this is Jim.
Roger, Jim. Good morning.
Good morning. Would it be okay now?
Rog. You're loud and clear now.
Okay. We figure we all got about 8 hours of sleep. The duration of that sleep was different. Dave figures he got it in about three segments; Al, about two; and - I had about five different periods of - of deep sleep. On the consumables update at 25:20; RCS A, 94; B, 94; C, 94; D, 93. On the H2 tank 1, 95; 2, 93; and 3, 81. O2 tank 1, 91; 2, 93; 3, 96. Standing...
Roger, Jim, copy.
by to charge battery A. And, Joe, I'm standing by to charge battery A.
Okay, Jim. Could you stand by on that? We'd just as leave you not do it right at the moment.
Okay. We'll stand by.
Rog. And we'll give you the word when we're ready for that.
I'll get the radiation report here shortly, and - could you confirm the position that - H2 Fan 3 should be in?
Rog, Jim. And, it - the H2 Fan 3 should be Auto.
Roger. I copy Auto.
Roger.
Jim, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Go ahead, Joe.
Roger, Jim. Just for your own information here, let me read up to you the CSM consumables that we've generated from the ground.
Okay.
Okay. At GET 25:09, we had RCS total, 90; Quad A, 89; 91, 89, 91. H2 tank 1, 94 per cent, 92 per cent, 81 per cent. O2 tank 1, 91 per cent, 92 per cent, 97 per cent. So it agrees pretty well with - what you guys are reading.
Good. Except for the - the RCS quantity.
Rog.
Okay, Joe. The LM/CM Delta-P is a plus.7.
Roger. Copy, plus.7.
Endeavour, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Jim. Are all three people still there?
All here, busy doing little things.
Okay, good. I've got some information for you when - you reach a minute - you - you want to listen here, and it concerns our - short - little short problem in the switch.
Okay, Joe. We're all listening. Go ahead.
Roger, guys. We're going to ask you to do a - a test burn on your SPS a little later; in fact, around 28 and a half hours. And - depending upon the results of that, we'll go ahead and do the midcourse, and it'll be a normal midcourse if the burn test doesn't really come off. And it'll be a trim midcourse of some kind if - the test, in fact, does give us an SPS burn. And I'll come up to you a little later on in the day with a set of procedures. There - a long list of them, but you'll be able to use your Launch Checklist for most of them. However, the test burn will mean that we're going to change - we're going to update your Flight Plan - with a - with a large number of things a little later on. about 10 minutes, I'll be reading that to you. Is it clear so far? Over.
Yes. That's fine, Joe. Can you give us a little run down on what you think the problem is?
Dave, when we get the better Omni in a second, I'll start talking about that. We're about to lose the comm.
Okay.
Endeavour, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, guys. First of all, Dick Gordon's over in the simulator right now running through this SPS burn procedure, and as soon as he says that's okay, we'll read that procedure up to you; I guess. It's not too complicated. Dave, in regard to your last question, very briefly - and I'm sure you guys have been thinking a bit about this yourselves - we're interested in finding out exactly where in your Delta-V Thrust A switch the short seems to be. And we're all of us down here are convinced that it's either in that switch or physically very near that switch. It's important that - that we know where it is, because - I guess the - the worst that it could be - would be a hard short - so-called hard short - upstream of the control Pilot Valve solenoid on bank A. And that would mean that we would lose the ability to turn bank A on and off as we wanted to. There are many other things it could be; namely, a soft short either upstream or downstream from that Pilot Valve solenoid. Or I guess it could be a hard short downstream from the solenoid, which - all of these would be annoying to us, but no major problem, really. It...
Okay. We get the general...
Go ahead, Dave.
We get the general - yeah, we get the general gist of that, Joe. Go ahead.
Okay, Dave. What - what we're going to try to do now is to go - go ahead and do an SPS burn using bank A. And we want that short to be active when we do it. So at some point, we're going to ask you to tap on the panel and try to get the short back for us. We - we show that the light is currently out, and I'm sure that you will confirm that.
That - that's verified.
Rog. Assuming we cannot get the light on again - we think that's unlikely but, if we can't get it on again, we'll delete this particular test and just go ahead and do a - a midcourse - normal midcourse 2 burn and - while we scratch our heads on this other thing.
Okay.
Now. Dave. We've got the changes to the Flight Plan here if your recording secretary is standing by to copy it.
Okay, go ahead. I'm ready Joe.
Rog, Dave. Are you just going to mark up the Flight Plan as I read it to you.
I'd prefer to do it that way.
Ah, Rog. We think that'll be the easiest. And, Jim, are you copying this now.
I'm standing by, Joe.
Rog. Okay. Okay. We're going to start at 25:05, and we've already deleted the charge-Bat-A line. Then moving on to 26:50, add P52 IMU realign, option 3. Moving to 27...
I copy.
Okay. Moving to 27:55. Move Delta-V test and null bias check up to 27:00. In other words, just move that line up. And coming up to 28:00 - a little something for you Al - we're going to delete the crew exercise period. And at 28:00, add in midcourse column - MCC-Houston column - uplink to CSM, CSM state vector and Verb 66; update to CSM SPS test maneuver PAD. And at 28:05, H2 Purge Line Heaters, On; exit G&N PTC; and maneuver to PAD burn attitude. Have you copied so far?
Yes, I copied everything to the MCC-H column. Understand the H2 Purge Line Heater, On; and exit PTC; and maneuver to PAD burn attitude at 28:05.
Roger, Jim. And we're going to lose comm in a minute; I'll be back with you.
Okay.
Okay, Jim; this is Houston. The comm's back again. How do you read me?
Loud and clear.
Okay, I'm ready to continue. And we'll pick up at 28:15, with a sextant star check.
Okay.
Okay; 28:20 I'm - going - going to read to you seven lines of instructions here, and they're all reproduced two pages over in your Flight Plan at 30:30. Your choice as to whether you want to copy them or just look two pages ahead. I'll go ahead and read the lines now.
Why don't we just look two pages ahead?
Okay.
Go ahead.
Okay. We're going - I want you to move seven of the lines from 30:30 to 28:20. And those seven lines are: The SM Sector 1 SM/AC Power, On; Pan Camera Power, Boost; Map Camera Image Motion, Off; Map Camera, On, Standby; H2 and O2 fuel cell purge; waste water dump; and, at 28:35, H2 Purge Line Heaters, Off.
Okay, I'll move those - the six steps there...
Okay.
at 28:20.
Roger, Jim. That's right. And the seventh step was at 28:35; you're correct, and that brings us to 28:40, which is SPS burn test. And at 28:41, Verb 66, set CSM state vector into LM state vector.
Okay. Copied SPS burn test, Verb 66.
Rog. 30:13, delete, and in fact, all the other items from here on out are deletes. And I'll go through them quickly. 30:13, delete battery charge A termination; 30:15, delete H2 Purge Line Heaters, On; 30:18, delete exit G&N PTC; 30:23, delete 'if SPS MCC required' and the references to pan and mapping cameras - the things, in fact, that you moved ahead; 30:35 delete H2 and O2 fuel cell purge and waste water dump; and, finally, 30:50, delete H2 Purge Line Heaters, Off. Over.
Okay. I copied all that, Joe.
Okay, guys. That's all we've got for you for the moment. Dick walked into the MOCR a few minutes ago. He says that the test burn procedure went okay. We're going to look it over one last time and then read the procedures to you.
Okay.
Houston, this is 15. We're ready to cycle the film in the - the Pan and Mapping Cameras.
Endeavour, we're ready when we get the High Gain going here. And I guess we'll have that ready about 5 minutes.
Okay.
Endeavour, this is Houston with your High Gain Antenna angles update.
All right; go ahead, Joe.
Rog. For the High Gain; Pitch, minus 25; Yaw, 90.
Okay, minus 25 and 90.
Roger; and the Omni, Reacq, NBW.
Roger.
And that's just for your information.
Jim, if you'll go ahead and set the angles in, we'll give you the cue when we're ready for you to select the High Gain.
Okay.
And it looks like it will be about 10 minutes, I guess.
Roger.
Endeavour, this is Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger, guys. wondered if you were interested in any breakfast-time news up there?
Yes, sir; we always are.
Is it breakfast time?
It's just about.
Okay, Troops. Let me start with a special message of Godspeed to the crew of Apollo 15 from President Richard Nixon. And I'll quote directly from him, and there are some words in here that are very well expressed, I think. "Apollo 15 is safely on its way to the Moon, and man is on his way to another step across the threshold of the heavens. Man has always viewed the heavens with humility, but he's viewed them as well with curiosity and with courage; and these defied natural law, drawing man beyond gravity, beyond his fears, and into his dreams, and on to his destiny." And we may be losing comm here. Let me stand by for a minute.
Endeavour, select the High Gain for us, please.
Okay, guys; suddenly you're back loud and clear, how do you read, Houston?
Okay, we're.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Apollo 15, this is Houston. Over.
Hello, Endeavour, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Rog, Jim. Sorry for the inter - interruption there. We had severe noise on our comm momentarily, but it's cleared up now. I'll go ahead with the morning's news and a quote from President Nixon. "The flight of Apollo 15 is the most ambitious exploration yet undertaken in space. Even as it reflects man's restless quest for his future, so it also re-enacts another of the deeper rituals of his bones, not only the compulsion of the inner spirit to know where we are going, but the primal need in man's blood to know from what we have come. We hope, by this journey, to know better the origins of Earth, the Moon, and other planets. We hope to understand something more of the mysteries of God's great work. And, in this seeking, we hope to understand more of man himself. To the men of Apollo 15, for all men, I say Godspeed." End quote. And there's a second message here that was telephoned to Doctor Fletcher yesterday through the State Department. It reads, "Congratulations on flawless launch. Please pass my best wishes for a successful mission to the crew of Apollo 15 and to your entire staff." And that message is signed "Spiro T. Agnew". And a third comment about the launch was the launch is called flawless and you three are described as being very businesslike. And Kappy is quoted as saying, quote, "The mission was the most nominal launch we have ever had." Unquote. And I'd like to put in an editor's note here. That's probably technically correct, but it's aesthetically very incorrect. You could track the vehicle for hundreds of miles, literally hundreds of miles through a beautiful clear sky, and it was a sensational launch aesthetically. I suspect you - I'm sure you would agree with that. Let's see, we've got an item here on Muhammad Ali/Jimmy Ellis fight here in the Astrodome, and it was declared a technical knockout in favor of Muhammad Ali in the last round - the 12th round. And it says that Ali took control of the fight in the sixth round and signaled the start of the end with an upper cut midway through the final round. And continuing on with the news, if you're still reading. Western Union employees...
Rog, Joe.
Okay. Western Union employees have announced agreement on a new contract that will end a nationwide walkout that began June 1. The 17,000 striking workers will go back on the job Wednesday morning. The Lockheed Company lost two senate vote - votes today in its attempt to avoid bankruptcy by obtaining a $250 million Government loan guarantee. In sporting news or further sporting news, the Oilers traded Jerry LeVias to the San Diego Chargers in exchange for two linemen, defensive lineman Ron Billingsley, and the 300-pound Gene Ferguson. The Oilers will use Ferguson at offensive tackle, it says. And, finally, the Minnesoka - Minnesota Vikings lost the services of starting guard, Jim Vellone when the doctors revealed that - that an undisclosed ailment would require long-term extensive treatment. And that's the end of the condensed news page I have in front of me this morning.
Okay. Thank you very much, Joe, and please express our appreciation to the President and the Vice-President.
Roger. Sure will.
Endeavour, Houston. Go to Auto Track for us now, please, and we're going to wait for another rev before we start to cycle those cameras.
Okay, Joe. Auto Track.
Endeavour, this is Houston. We'll be coming up on your camera cycling in about 15 minutes. It's for your own planning, and we'll cue you when we're ready for that.
Roger. We read, Joe.
Endeavour, could you select your Reacq mode, now for us please.
Okay. Going to Reacq.
Roger.
Okay, Endeavour; this is Houston. And we're ready for the camera cycling procedure now.
Stand by, Joe.
Roger.
15, this is Houston. If we're going to complete the camera cycling on this rev, I guess we'd better get started on that.
Yeah, we're in the process, Joe.
Oh, okay.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead.
Okay; if you're reading all the te - good telemetry down there, Joe, we'll be glad to cycle this thing.
Roger, Al. Go ahead. But stand - stand by. Sorry; stand by.
Okay.
We're not getting high-bit-rate data yet.
Okay; we'll stand by for your cue then, Joe.
Al, this is Houston. Is your data system switch on?
Rog, Joe. That's affirm; it is.
Roger.
Apollo 15, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Guys, we're having trouble picking up the proper data so we can monitor the film cycling process here. So we're going to have you stand by on that until our next High Gain acquisition, and we'll be back with you. In the meantime, leave all the SIM bay in the present configuration, if you would, please.
Roger.
Okay...
Is there anything we can do to help, Joe?
Say again, Al.
Is there anything we can do to help?
Al, this is Houston. We don't think that there's anything that - that you can do to help us at the moment.
Roger, Joe.
Okay; and in the meantime, we'd like to talk about the upcoming SPS burn, and we're going to be reading procedures up to you in a moment, and we think it's the easiest for you to copy these into your CSM Launch Checklist. So you might be looking for that and getting that out.
Okay, Houston. I wonder if you could hold off for about 10 or 15 minutes and let us get through the breakfast chores here, and then we can settle down and concentrate.
That'll be fine, Dave. We'll be standing by for your call on that and there is no hurry.
Okay.
Apollo 15, select High Gain for us, please.
Endeavour, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Roger. Stop PTC mode for us now, please.
Roger. Stand by.
Apollo 15, Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Guys, could you tell us how far down in your cycle film procedure you've proceeded - down to what step.
Joe, this is Al. We've got down to the point where we want to get a cue from you to cycle the film.
Okay, Al; that's fine. We copy that, and we suspected that, but wanted to confirm it.
Al, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Roger, Alfredo. Could you verify two things for us, please, that the Map Camera is in Standby and that the Pan Camera power switch is On; and when you turned it on, did you get the proper talkback indication?
The answer is affirmative to both of those, Joe.
Okay; thank you.
Al, this is Houston with another request on this film cycle procedure.
Okay, Joe; go ahead.
Roger, Al. Could you cycle the SM/AC Power switch for us, Off, and then, On, please.
Okay, José; do it.
Okay; and the problem here, we're seeing all the carriers, but we don't get proper modulation, and so we're just not getting the right data.
Okay, Joe; that's been cycled now.
Okay, Al. Thank you.
Apollo 15, Houston.
Houston, 15; go ahead.
Rog, guys. The attitude which you're currently holding is a good attitude for your P52, if one of you wants to get started on that. We'll have some words for you on the SIM bay problem in a few minutes, and then we'll want to be talking about the SPS burn coming up pretty shortly here. That is, we want to talk about it shortly; it won't be coming up for a while.
Okay, Joe; I'll start doing the P52.
Okay.
Okay, Al. This - this is Houston again.
Yeah, Joe; go ahead.
Al, your choice here. We suddenly found the missing data. It mysteriously reappeared, and we - we're ready to go ahead with your film cycling procedure. Your choice if you want to do your P52 first or the film cycle first, and we're standing by for either.
We're all set up on the - We're all set up on the film cycle, Joe. Why don't we go ahead and do that and then I'll flip down and do P52.
Okay, Al that sounds good to us and we'll be watching.
Okay, Al; film cycling's complete, and it all looked very good to us. You can proceed on with the powerdown.
Okay, Joe. Thank you, sir.
Okay; the powerdown to the SIM bay is complete, Joe.
Okay, Jim.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, Al.
Okay, Joe. I've got gyro torquing angles up, and I'll torque them out on the minute. That'll be at 27 hours and 24 minutes.
Okay, Al.
15, Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Guys, we just had indication that your Thrust light came on again for about 10 seconds. Did you notice that?
Yeah. Roger, Joe. That was the EMS Delta-V check.
Okay, Dave. Thank you. And, guys, we - we'd like to ask that you locate your CSM Launch Checklist, because we want to start talking about this SPS burn procedure.
Okay, we'll be ready in a couple of minutes.
Okay, Houston. We've got the checklist out, and we're ready to listen.
Okay, Dave. If you would, please, turn to page L/4-14, and we're just going to ask you to copy the procedure onto that page, because it'll consist of just a few changes to what's already listed on - on those few pages there.
Okay; we've got L/4-14. Go ahead.
We've got L/4-14. Go ahead.
Okay. Unless you'd like an explanation of what's to come, I'll go ahead and read through the steps here and pause from time to time to make sure that you're getting it all, and then we can talk about the details of why it's breaking out like this when we finish it.
Okay. Go.
Rog. I'm going to start there at the line, "If time permits, go to G&N thrusting procedures," et cetera, and right underneath that short paragraph, write in: "Circuit breakers EPS Group 5, two, Close;" and that's a "Verify."
Okay, circuit breakers EPS Group 5, two, Close. That's the Main A and Main B, right?
Yes, sir. And then we'll go on down about 4 lines to the "Set Delta-V" and that should read: "Set Delta-VC minus 100.
Rog. Set Delta-VC minus 100.
Rog. Now into the TVC check and prep section. After the first line, which is "Circuit breaker Stab Control System, all Close," insert: "Circuit breakers SPS pilot valves, two, Open;" and that's a "Verify."
Okay. Circuit - okay; circuit breaker SPS pilot valves, two, Open, verify. Below the line it has "CB stability control system, all, Close.
That's correct, Dave. And the next line should read "Circuit breakers SPS, 10, Close.
Okay, understand. Circuit breakers SPS, 10, Closed.
Rog. Skipping down several lines; Delta-V CG, LM/CSM.
Roger. Delta-V CG, LM/CSM.
Okay, Dave. Turn to page 4-15. And your next...
Page 4-15.
Rog. And your next change is in the TVC check, third line from the bottom of that first group there; delete "Rate, High.
Okay; secondary TVC check, third line from the bottom; delete "Rate, High." That's the line right after "Limit Cycle, Off.
That's correct. Down into the next group, "Delta-V Thrust A to Normal." You can...
"Delta-V Thrust A to Normal," and delete "B.
That's affirm, and then insert right after that - immediately after that, the following note. "Get thrust light on by pushing on panel first.
Okay. In other words, you want us to try and get the SPS Thrust - Thrust light on by tapping on the panel some way, so that the light is on with the Delta-V Thrust A switch up to normal. Is that right?
Dave, that's not quite right. Let me read through it. We want you to get the light on, but we want you to try to first get it on just by pushing, by flexing the panel around the switch in question. And the reason we're doing that, we think - it's - The probable short is contamination in the switch, but there's a small chance that it's some sort of problem in the wire bundle that will be flexed very slightly when you just push on the panel. So that - the note should read the following, and I'll read it clear through to the end. "Get thrust light on by pushing on panel first. If this doesn't work, rap on panel or cycle the switch until the light comes on. And if the light doesn't come on, we're going to delete the test.
Okay. Why don't we try that right now?
Dave, stand by a second.
Okay.
Dave, let's - let's ask you to stand by on that. We'd prefer to complete reading the procedures to you, and then - we'll worry about this light business. At any rate, you should have inserted the note "Get thrust light on by pushing on panel first. If this doesn't work, rap on panel or cycle the switch and if no light, then delete the test.
Okay, understand. Push, rap, cycle and if no light, delete the test.
Beautiful. Okay. Now, at about 1 minute to go, but definitely after the light is on, proceed on to the next step, which is Verb 37 Enter, 47 Enter.
Okay. If we get the light on, then we're at 2 minutes, and we'll work for about a minute to try to get the light on. And if we don't get it on by 1 minute then we'll consider that we cannot get it on, and if we do get it on by 1 minute, we'll call up P47.
Dave, it's - I guess the 2-minute mark out to the side of your checklist there is meaningless in this case, because the test is in no way time critical. We want you to take your own time and work to get the light on, but if it does come on at about 1 minute before the burn, we'll want you to go into Program 47.
Okay, I'm with you. Just to make sure we have P47 running.
Roger. That's exactly it. Okay. That brings us down to our next change, which is an insert just below the line "EMS Mode, Normal." And the change is "on MSFN cue, Circuit Breaker SPS pilot valve A, Close." And a note that goes with this line, "1 second burn desired. If no ignition, Circuit Breaker SPS pilot valve A, Open, after 3 seconds."
Okay, understand. Just before EMS mode, Normal, on MSFN cue, CB SPS pilot valve, Closed. And you desire 1 second burn, which means that if we get a light, we open the circuit breaker after 1 second. If we have no light, you want to leave the circuit breaker closed for 3 seconds and then open it.
That - that's exactly right, Dave. Now I've got some words here from Dick Gordon who's run through the procedure this morning and he tells me that - that - a good cue to monitor is the SPS PC coming off the peg, and, at the same time, Jim or Al can, or - or whoever is there, can - watch the ball valve indicators, also, for a cue that the engine is starting to burn.
Okay. Stand by one now, Joe. Let us regroup here for a minute and make sure that we have no questions up to this point.
Okay.
Okay, Joe. I guess one question we wanted to make sure here was that the - on the MSFN cue to close the pilot valve, is prior to going to EMS mode normal. In other words, we'll never get the EMS...
Nega - negative.
Is that correct?
Dave, that's negative. EMS mode normal...
Okay.
And then, on MSFN cue, the SPS pilot valve A, Alpha, Close, and let me repeat here, Dave, you may or may - may or may not get a light at this particular point. If you do not get a light, open the circuit breaker after about 3 seconds. If you do get a light, we're interested in - in as short a burn as you can give us, so - and Dick tells me that the reaction time - a good, reasonable reaction time would be, in pulling the circuit breaker after you see the PC come off the peg, would give you about 3 to 4 feet per second. And that's a real good number for us as far as the midcourse 2 is concerned.
Okay. Well, that's why we asked the question, just to make sure. It makes more sense the way you're doing it. So, - I guess we understand that. We can have Al watching the PC gauge, and Jim can watch the ball valves, and if anybody sees something move, why - Al can pull that circuit breaker.
Okay, Dave. That sounds good. Now a word about the circuit breaker. You might want to cycle it a couple of times - but before we go through this, just to make sure its not a lot stiffer than what you're used to working with in the simulator. And just get some idea of how its best to - to position yourself to pull this. It's also not all that critical that it get pulled absolutely immediately, but - you know, what - whatever's comfortable to do. It might make it easier for us on trimming up with your midcourse if we do get a burn.
Okay, we'll work that one. Over.
And, before you - you test that particular circuit breaker, just make sure that the Group 5 circuit breakers are Open, and we won't be risking anything by testing it. Now finally, after this note, we've got several deletions, and I'll continue on here. Delete "Ullage and thrust, On"; delete "SPS Thrust light, On"; delete "Delta-V thrust, B"; delete "Ullage and thrust, On"; delete "Monitor thrusting, PC 95 - 105, EMS counting down.
Okay. We got that. Deleting the next seven lines.
Yes, sir; exactly. Now the next line should read "SPS Injection Valves, two, Open.
Roger. SPS Injection Valves, two, Open.
Roger. Three lines down, delete "PUGS, balanced".
Rog. Delete "PUGS, balanced."
And then, the next line, after ignition confirmed, circuit breaker SPS pilot valve A - Main A, Open.
Okay. After ignition confirmed, CB SPS pilot valve A - Main A, Open. That's - just about what you gave us in the notes.
Rog. Exactly. And then a note - well, let's see. The note is - just a rehash of what we've already told you. The burn should not exceed 1 second if it's possible to avoid it. And then, exit P47 immediately after burn.
Okay. Shouldn't exceed 1 second and exit P47 immediately after the burn.
Roger. And that takes us to page 4-16. The first line...
Page 4-16.
Rog. First line, "Delta-V Thrust A, Off.
Delta-V Thrust A, Off.
Okay, Dave. And that's really the end of the procedures. We have - another note for this page, which is "After test, if SPS light goes out, attempt to get light back on by your standard procedures, pushing, rapping, cycling," I guess.
Okay. After the tests, if the SPS light is out, attempt to get it back on.
Roger. And that completes the procedures. Maybe a couple of - more words about it here. It's also possible that when you push the circuit breaker - to the pilot valve A, in, that the light will just go out, in which case, we'd be pretty confident that - the contamination causing the short is just a burn through. In other words, just disappeared and is no longer shorting the switch. The light would go out, and otherwise, nothing else would happen.
Okay; understand. If we - if when we push the circuit breaker in, the light goes out, we've burned to the short. Okay.
And, guys, you might look through those again, and - if you have any questions, please come right back to us with them.
Okay. Let us mull it over, and we'll get back with you.
Okay.
Okay, Joe. We have no further questions. We think we can run through that one okay.
Okay, Dave. And we'll have a PAD for you in a few minutes.
Okay, and I guess I still have a question as why we don't take a look at that light now with the push, rap and cycle technique.
Let me get a reading on that.
Okay. You know, we've tapped it, cycled it, but we've never pushed that panel just by pushing the panel to see if the light'll come on.
Dave, I guess the main reason is, before you do it, we'd like to get some recorders configured. We're setting the recorders up now so we can monitor the problem as you go through it, and then there is no reason you can't try pushing on the panel, provided the pilot valve breakers and the group 5 breakers are pulled.
Well, Joe, when you get a - a chance, or when you're set up down there, why - why don't we try that, and at the same time, we could run through our little check to see how the pilot valve Main A circuit breaker works, cycling it.
Okay, Dave. That sounds good.
We'll stand by for your call.
Endeavour, this is Houston requesting P00 and Accept, and we'll give you a state vector and some drift terms.
You got it. P00 and Accept.
Thank you.
Endeavour, this is Houston.
Houston, Endeavour. Go.
Rog, Dave. After you verify for us that your pilot valve circuit breakers and group 5 circuit breakers are out, you can go ahead with the push, rap, cycle test if you like.
Okay. Okay. Group 5 are open and the pilot valves are open, and we'll take a look at it.
Okay, Houston. Nothing worked pushing an I'll try rapping.
Okay, Dave. We agree.
Came on with the rap - up just to the top of the switch.
Okay; I'll cycle it and see if it goes off.
Okay; it flickers as - as I pass through neutral.
Roger.
And now she doesn't want to stay on.
Dave, as long as you keep those circuit breakers out, there's no reason we can't leave that light on. We need it on for the test anyway.
Okay, Joe. I can find a position on the switch where I can turn the light out now - in neutral position on the switch, if you want to look at it. I've cycled the switch a number of times, and I think I've got the spot where the light will go off, and I'll turn it off for a couple of seconds here for you.
Okay, Dave. Go ahead, and we're watching the drivers at the same time.
Okay, Joe. The light's out right now; Dave's holding the switch.
Roger. We confirm that.
Okay; it's coming back on now.
Rog.
off now.
Rog.
And coming back on.
And it seems like it goes off just at the lower portion or near the Off portion of the - force range there when you get to neutral. As you go into the neutral position, you have high forces, and right at the beginning of those high forces, it'll go off. And if you hold it in the neutral position, or the - the mid-position, where the - the force on the bottom of the switch, holding it so it won't go over center, that's when the light will go off. As soon as you let it go over center and flick up to the top, the light comes back on.
Roger. Dave, we copy that.
Dave, let's go ahead and stay in this configuration. If you want to practise with the pilot valve circuit breaker, we emphasize that group 5 circuit breaker definitely should be open.
Okay, we'll do that now. And the cir... group 5 are open.
And, Endeavour, this is Houston with the maneuver PAD when you're ready to copy.
Okay, Joe, I'm ready to copy.
Okay, Jim; and it's your computer.
Okay.
Maneuver PAD for the SPS test. SPS/SCS; NA; plus 1.24, minus 0.11; 028:40:00.00; NA, NA, NA; roll 061, 018, 020; NA, NA, NA, NA, NA; 11, 216.1, 18.6; NA, NA, NA. NA all the rest of the way; GDC Align, Vega, Deneb; roll align, 209, 009, 349. Other comments, set up SPS gimbal thumbwheels with pitch trim, yaw trim; High Gain Antenna, Pitch, minus 25; Yaw 359. Over.
Okay. Readback on the SPS test. SPS/SCS; plus 1.24, minus 0.11; 028:40:00.00; 061, 018, 020; 11, 216.1, 18.6; Vega and Deneb; 209, 009, 349. And set the SPS thumbwheels to the Pitch and Yaw trim. High Gain Antenna is Pitch minus 25 and Yaw 359.
Rog. Readback correct.
Endeavour, this is Houston.
Houston, 15. Go ahead, Joe.
Al, just a couple more words here. We're quite interested in subtle changes that may take place in the thrust light. And we'd like for you to think about perhaps playing around with the cabin lighting control there so you can get a good view of the light, and you may or may not want to use the filter in front of the light as you watch it, and I guess the third one of you should be watching the light during the burn test.
Okay, Joe. We'll keep a close eye on the light.
Roger, Al. And you understand, it's not a question of on/off but also if the intensity changes and - and...
Yeah, affirmative, Joe.
Rog, okay. And, guys, you can go ahead with the waste water dump if you want to now. There's nothing magic about the time we gave you on that.
Okay, Joe. Thank you.
Rog, Al. And - the provision on that is that you be at burn attitude before you dump the water. And after the sextant star check.
Apollo 15. This is Houston requesting Beam Width to Wide.
Okay, we're Wide, Joe.
15, you can terminate the waste dump anytime.
We're doing that now.
Okay, guys, and just want to reemphasize another point here. This burn is not at all time critical. It has very little effect on - on our midcourse corrections later on or whatever. Just want you to understand that.
Okay, Joe. We understand that.
Okay, Endeavour. This is Houston, and we're showing about 4 minutes to ignition.
Okay, and we've got about 5 and we're proceeding through the checklist.
Sounds good.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead.
Okay, Joe. We're all set up ready to go. We've got about 50 seconds to go. Sorry Joe, there we are - Yeah, we're ready to go now, any time, on your cue.
Okay, guys; go ahead.
Okay, Joe. Ready?
Mark; about 5.3 on the DSKY and about 4.7 on the EMS.
That sounds beautiful, Troops.
And, Houston, the light's still on.
Roger, Dave. We confirm that.
Endeavour, this is Houston.
Okay; go ahead.
Roger, guys. When you're comfortably through with the procedure here, we'd like for you to turn the thrust light out for us, please, by pulling the EMS Main A and B circuit breakers, two of them, on panel 8.
Rog. They're both open; the light is out.
Okay, Dave, and that - the reason for that is just to conserve that light bulb and a little power, and - that burn was exactly what we wanted to see. We'll proceed with a normal mission.
That's nice to hear.
I'm a smooth talker, aren't I?
Well, I'm glad you guys down there can figure all this out.
And, guys, a further word here. As you're probably already aware, the short is in what we've been calling the downstream side of that driver solenoid, and it means only that it's a little bit annoying to have. We can still turn bank A on and off as we want. We might modify a few procedures a little bit, but we haven't lost that bank.
Okay; very good. Thank you, Joe. Let's go to Hadley.
That's a super idea.
Hello, Endeavour, this is Houston.
Rog, Houston.
Rog, Dave. We're requesting a Narrow Beam Width, and then we have an attitude we'd like you to maneuver to for - for a DSE dump which we will initiate. Specifically, roll 40, pitch 12, yaw 50. High Gain, minus 38 and 318. Over.
Okay, understand. High Gain is now in Narrow, maneuver to roll 40, pitch 12, yaw 50. High Gain is minus 38 and 318.
Roger, Dave. And after that, we'll need only a roll maneuver to get us into the sextant photo test attitude.
Okay; very good.
Apollo 15, Houston.
Houston, 15. Go.
Roger, Dave. I'm pleased to report that not only did you carry out a successful SPS test burn, but you did a superb midcourse 2 correction at the same time. In fact, you burned it to within a half a foot per second of being exactly what we wanted. Consequently, we're going to omit midcourse 2 and midcourse 3. We'll be looking at a midcourse 4 correction of around 6 feet per second, it looks like now. And, additionally, because of this, we'd like for you to go ahead and secure the Mapping Camera and the Pam Can - Pan Camera at you convenience per the procedure that's shown at 31 hours and 10 minutes. Over.
Okay, Joe. Well, we sort of had that in mind when we ran the burn. And we'll secure the Map and Pan, and we'll be standing by for midcourse 4.
Rog, Dave. Al Worden always did have a very fine touch on the circuit breakers.
Yes, sir. He's - we call him nimble finger up here.
Rog. No comment to that one.
Okay.
Endeavour, Houston.
Go, Houston; Endeavour.
Roger. Al, for your benefit, we'd scrubbed the crew exercise period earlier. We'd like to put that back in again, any time between now and the sextant photo test.
Okay, Joe. Jim and I are doing some housekeeping now, and we're going to make sure we get all the exercise periods for you.
Roger, Dave. I'll rely on you for that.
Gee, we might even do a couple extra.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Please start your battery A charge at your convenience.
Okay, start battery A charging.
Okay, Dave. And we do have one question regarding the burn. On our data down here, we saw the thrust light go off right after the burn for about 7 seconds and wondered if you noticed the same thing up there?
Stand by.
Houston, the consensus here is that it stayed on, and I guess - we - we might have missed a short period there in getting the engine off and getting out P47, but Al and I both feel like it stayed on all the way, but I guess we're not a hundred per cent sure of that.
Okay, Dave. We copy. Thank you.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Would you like the P52 at 30 hours, or do you want to bypass that one?
Say that again, Dave. I didn't copy.
Would you like the P52 at 30 hours or would you like to bypass it?
Dave, that's not required. Go ahead and bypass that please.
Okay; thank you.
Dave, this is Houston again. While we're talking, could you look back in your time line for us, please, and give us the results of your EMS test. I guess that's a bias reading at around 27 hours.
Roger. That was.7.
Okay;.7. Thank you.
And the Delta-V test was - was okay.
Roger.
15, this is Houston.
Houston, 15.
Roger. Al, I've got a correction to the erasable loads in your G&C Checklist. If you'd fish that out for me, I'll go ahead and read them to you.
Okay, Joe. Could you stand by about 5 minutes?
Rog, Dave. Standing by, and no hurry. Just give me the word.
Houston, 15. If you could stand by about 5 minutes, why, our trusty CMP could fin - finish up his exercise period and get with you on that.
Roger. I'll stand by 10 or 15 minutes in that case.
Okay.
Okay.
15, Houston.
Houston, 15.
Dave, in all that going on with that Flight Plan activities - about 28 hours, we may have missed something. Did you change your lithium hydroxide canister about 28 hours or so?
Rog. We got that.
Okay.
Houston, 15. The canister was changed at about 26:10.
Okay, Dave. We're just seeing a little rise in the partial pressure CO2. That's the - the reason we asked the question. We'll watch it.
Roger.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Rog, Joe. I'm ready with the erasable update if you want to go with that.
Roger, Al. Turn to page 9-4 if you would. And it's a - an update only to your column Alpha - octal ID, column Alpha. And it's octal ID...
Okay; I got it.
Rog. Octal ID 11 should read 00634; 12 is 77425; and 13, 77317. Over.
Roger, Joe. Understand. Column Alpha, octal ID 11 should read 00634; 12 should be 77405; and 13 should be 77317.
Al, there's a mistake in your readback for 12. That should be 77425.
Roger, Joe; 77425.
Rog.
And that's the extent of it. Thank you.
Okay, Joe.
15, Houston.
Houston, 15. Go ahead.
Roger, guys. We're requesting - that, at your convenience, you roll to the sextant photo attitude, which is a roll of 270 - the same pitch and yaw you're presently in - so that you'll be getting some sunlight on the SIM bay to - to start to warm it up. And during the roll, we'll call out an antenna change to you.
Okay, Houston; 15. Understand you want us to roll, with our present pitch and yaw, to a roll of 270.
That's affirm, Al.
Apollo 15, select Omni Charlie, and stow the High Gain, please.
Rog, Joe. Omni Charlie, and stow the High Gain.
Roger.
