Houston. Apol... [Long pause.]
15, this is Houston.
Yes, Houston. Go ahead.
I was informed that you called. Did you call?
Roger. We were wondering if you've got the High Gain angles for us...
Stand by.
Yeah, we called you. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 15. [Pause.]
15, go ahead.
Okay. We are ready to cycle the cameras, now, if you've got some High Gain [Antenna] angles for us.
Stand by on the High Gain angles. [Long pause.]
Roger, 15. Your High Gain angles are Pitch, minus 75; Yaw, plus 36.
Okay; understand. Pitch, minus 75; and yaw, plus 346 [sic].
Plus 36. Affirmative. [Long pause.]
Okay; tell you what, Houston, we'll go back to 50 degrees roll and pick up the UV for you. Do it there. [Long pause.]
15, this is Houston...
And, Houston, 15. Did you copy the P52?
Roger. We got your torquing angles. Thank you. And they say down here that you don't need to roll at the present time. We'd just as soon save the propellant.
Well, we'll pick it up at the 50-degree mark, when we come around.
Okay; that'll be fine.
Okay, Houston. We've got you on the High Gain [Antenna] now, and we'll check our circuit breakers, be ready to cycle the cameras when you're ready
We copy, 15.
Okay, Houston; 15. If you've got telemetry, we'll cycle the film on your cue. [Pause.]
Roger. Stand by, 15.
Rog. [Long pause.]
15, this is Houston. Before we cycle the cameras, we need to stop [the] PTC [mode]. You can either do that immediately - or else go through the - go through the 50-degree roll and use the angle[s] that are in your Flight Plan. That's your choice.
Oh, we'll just press on to 50 degrees, and stop there. We thought you could pick it up on the way around.
That'll be fine. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 15.
15, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Okay. I'm taking a look at our attitude for the UV photos. We see we need a roll of 153 [degrees], and your update today gave us a roll of 050 degrees. And, it seems like we probably ought to stop the roll at 153, and just skip that 050 degree attitude so we can save the maneuver.
15, the High Gain won't be available to us at the angle 153. [Pause.]
Okay. [Long pause.]
And, Houston; 15. For future reference, I - I guess we are to understand that you cannot do the camera cycling while we're in PTC, even though you have High Gain. Is that correct? [Long pause.]
Dave, there are pros and cons to that. We could do it if we finessed it just right. But since it's difficult, and we have to stop rolling anyhow, it's better to stop the roll this time.
Well, that - that's true. We're just trying to save you a maneuver. We [have] got to stop the roll and then start the roll again to get back to another spot. But, we'll go that way.
Okay, Houston; Apollo 15. Standing by for the Map and Pan Camera, On, on your cue. [Pause.]
Roger, 15. We have a good High Gain lock on, and we're Go for the cycling of the cameras. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 15.
15, this is Houston.
Roger, Houston. We're standing by for your cue to cycle the Map and Pan Cameras.
Roger. We are ready to cycle the Man and Pan - the - the pan and mapping cameras. Go ahead.
Okay. The Man and Pap [sic] cameras are coming up now.
(Laughter)
Okay, Jim. How do you cycle those?
(Laughter)
Okay. Map Camera on to On for 2 minutes and then Off, and I'll set the camera.
Okay. we're going to On...
Okay.
Mark.
The clock is running. Pan Camera Self Test to on (up). Talkback barber pole, to five frames, and then gray.
Okay, Self Test.
And then five. Then you do five frames.
Okay.
... he doesn't. I think you - you'll - you'll see at 5 - about 5 seconds - and then gray.
Okay. Is it gray?
Not yet.
Still not gray?
No.
It is barber pole?
Yes, it's barber pole.
Did it go barber pole when you put it - put it on?
Yes.
...
Oh, I see, Al. It does five frames automatically, and then it automatically goes gray.
Yes.
Okay. It's gray.
Good. Pan Camera Self Test to Heaters.
We still don't know whether it - what - anything about the craters.
Okay, Pan Camera Self Test going to Heaters.
Pan Camera Power to Off.
Pan Camera Power, Off.
Okay. After mapping camera - Oh, wait a minute. Stand by for the bell.
Okay.
And when the bell rings, you want to go Mapping Camera to Off.
Okay.
Oh, boy.
Too bad they didn't put this panel over on Al's side.
I think it'd been a lot easier for him during the flight - or during the...
Yes.
...solo time, too.
Yes. Yes, it would have, too.
Probably didn't have the wiring.
Didn't have any room for it ...
Well, they probably - the wire ... probably were all built for this, you know.
Yup, yup. There you go.
Okay, Mapping Camera going Off.
Map Camera, Off. Okay, and then for 1 minute, we time the Mapping Camera, Off. And after it's been Off for 1 minute, Map Camera goes - the Map Camera, On, goes to Standby, and we should get a gray talkback. And the clock is running.
You have another 49 maneuver, or you want to recoup -
... that other ... 49 maneuver ... again.
Oh, oh, it says - Well, you get the idea that the - Let's see - it says secure the high gain antenna.
Yes.
So why don't we wait?
Okay, Jim. Map Camera, On, to Standby.
Verified.
Talkback gray.
Verified.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 15. That completes the Man and Pap Camera operation. And if you're through, we'll secure the High Gain and maneuver to the UV attitude. [Pause.]
Nothing like rubbing it in. [Laughter.]
Okay. You're Go to maneuver to UV photo attitude.
Okay. On the way. Thank you.
What's the attitude there, Jim?
Uh...
15, this is Houston.
Houston, 15. Go ahead.
We wonder if you can give us an estimate of how long it takes between removing the Lexan shade and getting the cardboard shade back into the window, when you go into the UV experiment. We need something rough to, say, plus or minus 30 seconds.
Karl, this is 15. Looks like you just barely got started when we - when we lost the S-band. How about saying that over again, please.
Roger. We'd like to have an estimate of how much time it takes between removal of the Lexan shade, and installation of the cardboard shade, when you go into the UV experiment. Something rough to, say, plus or minus 30 seconds.
Karl, we've kept the cardboard in the window up to now. We've had no need to put in the Lexan, so we can't give you the number right now.
Okay.
But we will - the next time we change it, [we'll] keep it in mind, and we'll give you the [garble].
Okay. We'd like to have an estimate on that, when you get a chance.
Houston, 15. [No answer.]
Hello, Houston; 15.
15, this is Houston.
Okay, Karl. We're through with the UV photos, and the window number 5 is still clear.
Thank you very much for the report.
15, this is Houston. You can terminate the charge - charging of battery Bravo. And, when you have a moment, we'd like to get a read-out on the LM/CM Delta-P. And, in about 20 seconds, we're going to have a handover and a loss of comm for 1 minute.
Okay, Karl. We're terminating battery B charge now.
15, we'd like to have Omni Charlie, please. [No answer.] [Pause.]
15, this is Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
15, this is Houston. [No answer.]
15, this is Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
15, this is Houston. Are you reading us? [No answer.]
15, this is Houston. How do you read?
Yeah; Rog, Houston. We're 5 by. Our LM/CM Delta-P is off scale high. And I wonder if you're happy with the depress of the LM, and may we get on with repressurizing it and go to our housekeeping. [Pause.]
Roger, 15. You have a Go to proceed.
Roger. Thank you. [Pause.]
And, Al, can you tell us how the - the shade on window 5 - how the hole is being blocked. Do you have the Lexan over it, or do you have the camera in there? [Pause.]
Okay. We have the cardboard on it and the metal shade behind that. [Pause.]
We copy. Thank you.
We've been keeping the metal shade on that window to try and keep the temperature in the cabin down a little bit. When the Sun's coming in the windows, it warms things up pretty well.
Okay. We copy.
15, this is Houston. If you would go to a 5-degree med - deadband, they say down here we might save a little bit of propellant.
Roger.
15, this is Houston. If you've got a little cry - Cryo Press light up there - we see that down here, and that's expected at the moment.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Roger, Houston. [The] Falcon's all set up for data [telemetry to Earth], and want to know if you're getting it.
Roger. We're getting data from Falcon.
Rog.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Okay. If you'll let me know - when you've gotten enough data from Falcon, then I can tell Jim to power that down.
Roger, Al. Stand by.
15, this is Houston. The batteries and the SHe all look to be in excellent shape, and we're ready to secure the instrumentation. They can go ahead to page 1-18.
Rog. Understand, Houston. We go on to 1-18. Thank you, sir. [Long pause.]
15, Houston. Is it possible to get the ED bat[tery] readings?
Stand by one, Houston. [Long pause.]
Houston, the ED batteries are reading 37 on both.
Thank you.
Rog.
15, this is Houston. Would you please put O2 Heaters 1, 2, and 3 all to Auto.
Rog, Karl. O2 Heaters 1, 2, and 3, all Auto.
Thank you.
Houston, 15.
15, go ahead.
Rog, Karl. Looks like the - the LM checkout's coming along pretty good. We've checked out all the batteries now. When do you want us to start in the PTC? [Long pause.]
Rog, Al. We - we want to get a few minutes, about 5 minutes of SIM bay data there at - it's 15:45 in your Flight Plan, and then we're - then we can go into PTC.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, Al.
Okay, Karl. If you're ready, we'll give you the SIM Bay data, now.
Hang on just 1 or 2 minutes. We're not completely set up down here.
Okay.
Al, we're ready for the SIM bay data.
Okay, Karl. Coming your way.
15, Houston. We'd like to have you turn O2 Heaters 1 and 2, Off at this time and leave number 3 on Auto.
Okay, Houston. Coming Off with 1 and 2 and leaving 3 in Auto.
Very good.
15, this is Houston. We have enough SIM bay data and you can terminate that procedure, and we're ready, then, to go into PTC, and we would like - [RCS quads] Alpha and Delta for damping and Bravo and Delta for spin-up. [Pause.]
Okay, Houston; 15. Understand you've got enough SIM bay data so we'll turn it off. Going into PTC and using Alpha and Delta for damping and Bravo and Delta for spin-up.
That's correct.
15, this is Houston. How are we coming along on closing up the LM?
Houston, 15. We're coming along, taking our time doing it, Karl, while we're getting going on [the] PTC [mode].
Okay.
And we'll be a few more minutes - stabilizing the rates here for the PTC 'til we get all the dumps done.
Roger. And be advised that we're prepared to read up a fairly extensive revision to the SPS burns, and we'd like for you guys to - let us know when you're ready to - discuss it and copy it.
Okay, Karl. It'll be a while yet.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Okay, Karl. How do the [rotation] rates look to you now? [Pause.]
Okay. They - Okay, Al; they look good to us, and you can go ahead and spin her up.
Okay, Karl.
15. We'd like to have Omni Bravo, please.
Omni Bravo.
Al, this is Houston. Could we have High Gain, Manual and Wide.
Roger. Stand by.
We don't want to bring it up. We simply want to select Manual and Wide.
Okay; you have it.
Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 15. [Pause.]
15, this is Houston.
Rog. We're all up on the comm and ready to talk about the SPS.
Roger, Al. Dick Gordon's here and he's been involved in hashing all of this out, and I'd like to have him read it up to you and argue with you about it.
I'll do that. Go ahead, Richard. [Long pause.]
Hello, Dave. No argument; what are you doing way out there?
Oh, we're just sort of checking out the old LM...
Okay.
...taking a look at the pretty scenery.
Okay. Listen, we've been, as you might guess, been talking a great deal about P40 procedures, and we do have some changes to talk to you about and if you've got your G&N Dictionary [sic] handy and page 5-1 where the P40 thrusting goes, I'd like to go ahead and go through it and discuss it with you.
Okay, let's pull it out, Dick. [Long pause.]
Okay. We've got 5-1 out. Go.
Okay, Dave. Right below the "Verify the SIM Powerdown" line there, I'd like for you to insert two lines. "Circuit breakers, SPS Pilot valves, two of them, Open," and that should be a "Verify." [Pause.]
Okay. "CB SPS Pilot valve, two, Open; Verify."
And then the next line would be "Circuit breakers EPS [Electrical Power System], Group 5, two of them, Closed; Verify." [Pause.]
Okay. CB EPS, Group 5, two, Closed, Verify.
Okay. Right there in the same column, underneath "Test Caution and Warning lamps," insert "EMS Function, Off; Verify."
Okay. Beneath "Test Caution and Warning lamps," "EMS Function, Off; Verify."
Roger. Then the next line would be "Circuit breakers, EMS Main A and B, two of them, Closed." [Long pause.]
Okay. "CB EMS A and B, both, Closed."
Okay, Dave, That'll finish up that page. The next comment's on page 5-2, where it starts in with a TVC [Thrust Vector Control] check and prep, second line, "Circuit breakers, SPS 10, vice 12, Closed."
Okay; understand. "CB SPS 10, vice 12, Closed," and those are the two pilot valves?
That's affirmative. Okay. Page 5-3 at the two minute point - 58 with 2 minutes in parentheses - I'd like for you to scratch the line that says "Delta-V thrust A paren[thesis] B, Normal" and substitute "Circuit breaker, SPS Pilot Valve Main B, Closed."
Okay. "CB SPS Pilot Valve Main B, Closed," instead of the "Delta-V Thrust A and B to Normal."
Okay. [Long pause.]
We got an Omni...
Okay. Go ahead; we got it.
...Okay; we got an Omni switch; just hang on. [Pause.] Okay, Dave. The - the next one is on page 5-4 and it's an insert, where you get the flashing 99, below the line that says "Pro at TFI [Time From Ignition] greater than zero seconds," insert "Delta-V Thrust A and B, two of them, to Normal," and we'll come back and discuss that in a minute.
Okay, Dave. Did you get that? "Delta-V Thrust A and B, two of them, to Normal" right after the Pro at the flashing 99.
No, we - we lost you on the comm there, Dick. At minus 2 minutes, and we verified that we scratched the "Delta-V Thrust A or B, to Normal," and substituted "CB SPS Pilot Valve Main B, Closed." That's the last we heard from you.
Okay. On page 5-4. I was just talking about that line where you get the flashing 99, and the line that says "Pro at TFI greater than zero seconds." Under that line, insert "Delta-V Thrust A and B, two of them, to Normal," and I'm sure we'll want to discuss this in a little bit.
Yeah, it sounds like it. Okay. After "Auto Ignition, Pro at TFI greater than 7 - greater than zero seconds," insert "Delta-V Thrust" - Did you mean A or B or do you mean A and B, Normal.
I mean - I mean at this time A and B, and we'll talk about different burns on this very subject a little later.
Okay. A and B, Normal.
Okay. Down in the next paragraph where it's got the 06 40 and the emergency procedures for the flashing 97 40 for the SPS thrust fail, scratch the line that reads "Delta-V Thrust B paren[thesis] A, Normal," and insert "Circuit breaker, SPS Pilot Valve Main A, Closed." [Pause.]
Okay. Stand by one.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay. On the flashing 97, scratch "Delta-V Thrust B paren[thesis] A, Normal," and insert "CB SPS Pilot Valve B, Closed."
That was SPS Pilot Valve Main A, Closed.
That right?
That was Main A, Closed, Dave.
Okay. Main - Rog. Sorry about that, Main A, Closed; right.
Okay. What we're saying - if you don't get an ignition on [bank] B, we want you to go ahead and use [bank] A.
Okay.
Okay. The next change is at 3 seconds. Scratch the line that says "Delta-V Thrust B paren[thesis] A, Normal," and insert "Circuit breaker SPS Pilot Valve Main A, Closed."
Okay. At 3 seconds, scratch "Delta-V Thrust B, A, Normal," and insert "CBS - CB SPS Pilot Valve Main A, Closed."
Okay. In the bottom of the page, this is applicable to LOI only. And at 6 minutes into the burn, we want the line "Circuit breakers, SPS Pilot Valve Main A, Open."
Okay. At 6 minutes into the burn, "SPS Pilot Valve Main A, Open."
Okay. And then a note there for Jim. At that point, we do - we no longer want any PUGS manipulation for fuel valves.
Okay; understand. No PUGS after 6 minutes.
Okay. We'll talk about the reason for that in a second. I've got one more line [to add] in your P40 checklist, and then we can discuss some things. It's on page 5-5, it's in the cleanup column there, about halfway - no, almost to the "Pro" underneath the line that reads "Circuit breakers SPS Pitch 1 and Yaw 1, Open," insert "Circuit breakers SPS Pilot Valve Main B, Open."
Okay. Beneath "CB SPS Pitch 1, Yaw 1, Open," insert "CB SPS Pilot Valve Main B, Open."
Okay. That cleans up the - the checklist items. Take the easy one first. And the reason we want to - to secure bank A during the LOI burn at 6 minutes is so we can get a handle on the single bank performance, and we anticipate making all of the other burns with the good bank, bank B, with the exception of TEI [Trans-Earth Injection]. [Pause.]
Okay; that makes sense.
Okay. And I guess the - the other things we might talk about just - just briefly is that the procedures that we just gave to you are for LOI. For midcourse 4 and DOI [Descent Orbit Insertion], we'll use the same procedures, but we'll do it on bank B only, single bank burn; we'll use the good bank. And we won't do anything with the Pilot Valve for Main A or the Delta-V Thrust A. We'll just go ahead and do these procedures, but not use bank A at all. [Pause.]
Okay; understand. We'll use dual bank for LOI and TEI, and all other burns will be on bank B only, with no manipulation of the Delta-V Thrust A switch.
Okay. And after we do our LOI and DOI, we should have some real good visibility into [that is: understanding of] bank B; and for Al's planning, when he's up there by himself for the Circ[ularization] and plane change burns, we'll use normal procedures. The old procedures Delta-V Thrust B, Normal at TIG minus 2 minutes, with the exception that we will make those burns [using a] single bank, and we will not attempt to use bank A. [Pause.]
Oh, okay. Well, then, we - we've got three groups and when Al solos, he's going to use single bank B just like he's always done with the circuit breakers with CB SPS Pilot Valve B in at the beginning of the procedures. Is that right?
That's correct. And for TEI, the only change we'll probably make is the procedure we just passed. We'll probably let bank A - we'll probably leave bank A in the burn until we get down to about 5 seconds to go, and the reason for this - if something happens to the banks then, we're within our RCS capability for midcourses. [Pause.]
Okay. I guess - Okay; we - we can press on here, but we'll probably talk it over with you before each burn anyway, too.
Yes, I'm sure we will. And I guess the thing to talk about now is our reasoning, our thought processes on having you proceed at 5 seconds, and then having Al throw on both the Delta-V Thrust switches right after that. And let me go through it, and let you think about it then. The reason we want to do that now - even though we do have a great deal of confidence in bank B - but the SPS Engine Thrust light - we have no visibility into that system as long as that light is on. And, if for some reason, since we do have this suspect system here in A, we don't want to take the chance with B. And when that thing fires off, we want you to be on a good guidance. You won't have to do anything as far as your guidance is concerned. You can continue the burn, and press on even though it - it may have ignited prematurely. It does require procedure change, and I think you and Al [should] think about how you might handle this, and - and come back to us. But those are the reasons we didn't want to turn either Delta-V Thrust on earlier than the point where you'll get good G&N-guided burns.
Okay. That sounds like you been doing some good deep thinking on it all. That fits pretty well, Dick.
Okay, Dave. We'll let you guys think about those - Hang on.
15, Houston. [No answer.]
15, Houston. [No answer.]
15, Houston.
Okay. We've got signal strength back, also, Dick. Go ahead.
Okay, Dave. I guess we might talk about MCC 4 [Mid-Course Correction number 4] just a little bit. We haven't really gone into this...
Okay.
...too deeply. We haven't gone into MCC 4 too deeply yet. Right now, it looks like it's a Delta-V of about, oh, 4.2 [feet per second, 1.3 m/s], and our intentions are at this moment to make that single bank burn with bank Bravo. And if something happens there, we're looking at possibly finishing that up with - with RCS. But we're not definite on that, and just wanted you kind of have a feel for it.
Okay; that makes sense. I guess we've got one point here, and looking at the post-ignition sequence on the LOI burn. In order to monitor start transients and retain Al's capability to take over in case we have a gimbal hardover at start or something like that, perhaps it might be better to push that circuit breaker, the SPS Pilot Valve Main A, closed, as soon as we get ignition. And then that would enable Al to get back over in the THC in case he's got a problem there. How about that?
Okay. We did discuss that little bit down here about that time. We felt that we'd like to have the - the engine stable out - stabilize out to [be under full] guidance [control] and the engine on bank B before he even goes over and tries to get that Pilot Valve circuit breaker in. That will give us visibility on - on the DSE dump on how bank B is performing.
Okay. Then why don't we move it down sometime past 3 seconds, a little later. How would that fit you?
Well, we discussed that one too, and 5 seconds was used. What would you like? [Pause.]
Well, 5 seconds sounds a tad better than 3, and it gives - gives us a chance to get stable in here, and gives Al a chance to take a look at what kind of start transients we've got.
Okay. Dave, I guess our discussion around here - We had proposed 5 [seconds] at one time, and it was a change to your normal procedures of putting the other bank on, so I guess it's really your choice in this regard; 5 seconds is just as good as 3. [Pause.]
Yeah, okay. Well, [laughter] Al made the point that it's all changed anyway, because normally I bring on bank - the second bank in 3 seconds, and he doesn't have to worry about it. He's concentrating on the start transients and everything. So it's a complete change at any rate, and I think it might be a tad better to go to the 5 seconds with Al on the circuit breaker.
Okay; that sounds good to us. Yeah, Dave; the point's being made that it can be even longer than that, if you really feel like you need it. [Pause.]
Okay. Well, we'll shoot for 5 seconds and if Al feels uncomfortable about the start transients and wants to hang on to the T-handle, I think that ought to be his option.
I couldn't agree more.
Okay.
Okay. Karl's got some things here, I guess, on the LEB lighting and stuff, and my question to Al is how he wants to handle the timing if he doesn't have that LEB timer for P24's and those good things that he's doing. [Pause.]
He's thinking. Just a minute.
Okay. We don't need an answer now. Karl's got some things on - on that. We can use this as a discussion period, I guess.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Dave, I'm going to go get dinner. We'll talk to you later.
Oh, okay. Thanks a lot, Dick; appreciate it.
Okay. We'll be looking at you.
Good.
Houston, 15. [Pause.]
15, go ahead.
Okay; we're standing by for the rest of the comments you may have on the circuit breaker, et al.
Roger. We'll be with you in just a couple of minutes.
15, this is Houston.
Houston, 15; go.
Just a quick note on the - on the circuit breaker on the illumination, and then a procedure that might clarify a couple of things for us. First of all, there's a - a number of numeric and electroluminescent lights that are out, but we won't go into all of that. The main thing is the panel 122 DSKY down there [in the LEB]. The - As far as we can see at the moment, there is some possibility that we still have illumination on your status lights on that DSKY, and if we go through a small procedures here, we may find out whether or not there will be illumination on this. Stand by.
15, this is Houston. Are you reading. [No answer.]
15, this is Houston. [No answer.]
15, This is Houston. [Pause.]
Go ahead, Karl.
Right. Back to our lighting circuit breaker. Let me emphasize two main points to start with. I guess, under no circumstances, do we want to close that circuit breaker. And a second - problem is a - a - a second point is that we don't want to change the Integral Lighting, or the Numerics lighting rheostats on panel 100. Let's leave them just as they are. And then there's the - there is a possibility due to the fact that there is a very low amperage shunt going around that circuit breaker, there is a possibility that we do have lights on the DSKY status lights; that is, the Uplink Activity lights, et cetera. And if we can go through a quick procedure here, we'll find out whether or not we do have lights there. Shall we go ahead?
Okay. Go ahead, Karl; we'll take a look at it.
Okay. First of all, on panel 100, again making sure that we do not change the Numerics and Integral lighting switches [means rheostats], can you tell us the position of those two switches, those two - rheostats?
Okay, we'll tape them into [the] position they are right now. [Long pause.]
Houston, 15.
Go ahead. [Pause.] 15, this is Houston. Go ahead. [Pause.]
Okay, Houston. We just did a little checkout for your LEB DSKY, and the key release light doesn't work - for one - does not work.
Roger. I guess you are a couple of steps ahead of us there. Can you tell us the position of - of the Numerics knob over on panel 100?
About 2 o'clock. [Pause.]
Roger, I guess that's - that's one of our weak points. If - if that switch had - if that knob had been over close to full Bright, we had some chance of getting enough energy into those lights to make them work, but in that position, that's probably not possible. And we should leave things as they are.
Well - well, I - I'm not sure those Integral lighting rheostats have not been moved since the circuit breaker popped. I guess if you want to, we could run it over to full Bright, or I guess you probably prefer to leave it as it is, and if so, we'll give up on the status lights.
The word at the present time is let's leave them just as they are, Dave.
Okay. We'll put a piece of tape across so that we don't accidentally run into them.
Okay. [Long pause.]
That's all we have on that subject, 15. You probably know as well as we, what lights you're missing up there. We could give you a list if you would like.
Oh, no. We've got a good handle on it, Karl. Thank you.
Roger.
15, This is Houston.
Go ahead.
I've got one small comment for you, and then a small update to the Flight Plan. First of all, they've init - they've gone through a very thorough test on the range-rate [tape]meter and how it operates under those pressures and in that pure oxygen atmosphere, and so far as we can see at the present time, there's no problem whatever in its operation, but we'll continue that test. In the Flight Plan at 60 hours on the - on the SIM bay procedure to get some data from the cameras there, I have a small change, if you have the Flight Plan out. [Pause.]
Go ahead, Karl.
Right. That procedure should go in this order. First, the "S-band AUX, TV to Science," as is already there. Then the "Pan Camera Power, On for 5 minutes, and then Off." After the power goes off, wait for a MSFN cue [i.e. a cue from Mission Control via the MSFN] because we want to pick up some data in that - in that state as well. After you get a MSFN cue, then we go to the "Pan Camera, Self Test, Off," the "Mapping Camera, On switch to Off," and then the "S-band Auxiliary, TV, Off," in that order. And we're going to need the High Gain Antenna for this job. And we're going to have a Pitch, minus 30 [degrees]; and a Yaw of 90, and we're going to have to give you cue as to when to start this, so that everything will be lined up right. [Log pause.]
Okay. We copied all that. [Long pause.]
Houston, we copied that.
Roger. And when we come close to the right time, let us know when you're ready to start, and then we'll let you know when we're ready.
15; Roger. [Long pause.]
Karl, this is 15. We're ready to do that now, or whenever you're ready. [Long pause.]
Houston, this is 15.
15, we copied. And stand by; within 1 or 2 minutes, we'll be able to give you a Go.
Roger.
15, this is Houston. It looks like we have a 2 to 3 minute wait yet.
Roger.
15, this is Houston. You're Go to turn on the Pan Camera telemetry. We need to bring up the High Gain Antenna first and then turn on the Pan Camera telemetry.
Roger. We copy.
Pan Camera Power is on now.
We copy.
15, this is Houston. We're ready for the "Pan Camera Power switch, to Off."
Oh, very well. Pan Camera Power is coming Off. [Pause.]
Pan Camera Power is Off. [Long pause.]
15, Houston. You can proceed with the rest of that procedure.
Roger. In work. [Long pause.]
15, Houston. We'd like to have Omni Bravo.
15, this is Houston. [Pause.]
Houston, 15. Go.
At your convenience, give - give us the Wide Beam on the High Gain Antenna. And the system down here says that your PTC is excellent. In fact, it's one of the best they've ever seen.
Oh, very good. Okay; you want High Gain [Antenna], Wide Beam, huh?
That's affirmative. [Pause.]
Okay.
We - we don't want to bring up High Gain; we just want to select Wide and Manual.
Oh, okay. Okay, we - we['ll] do that.
15, this is Houston. How are we set for the Bistatic Radar Frequency Check? [Long pause.]
Karl, we're just about ready for it.
Okay; we're about ready down here, too. Let us know when you're Go. [Pause.]
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay; we're configured. [Pause.]
Houston, this is 15. We're all configured up here.
Roger. We copy, and stand by. [Pause.] 15, we're turning off the uplink now.
Roger.
15, this is Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
15, this is Houston. How do you read? [Pause.]
Five square, Houston.
Good; it sounds like we've got our uplink going again. That next bit down there about ground cue, it'll be about 20 minutes before we get - get down to that.
Okay. We'll be standing by.
15, this is Houston. [Pause.]
Houston, 15.
I guess we've got all the data we need down here. You can go ahead and turn the VHF off.
Roger; VHF coming off.
15, this is Houston. [Pause.]
Houston, 15. Go.
Looks like a very quiet night tonight. About the only question we've got for you at the present time is your assessment of the glass clean-up. How did it go? [Pause.]
Well, we got a - a few more pieces just by looking around over there. Some of the smaller like - oh, I guess the largest piece we found was about a centimeter or so, and the vacuum cleaner picked up a bunch of small chips. I guess - In total, we may have 60, 70 percent of the portion that broke, and I think we've really picked up all that is practical at this stage.
Roger. Any special places this stuff seems to collect that you can tell? [Pause.]
I think, initially, we found most of it was - up near the COAS [Crew Optical Alignment Sight] mount and behind the panel on the left side - near - near the forward part of the window. We found several - several larger pieces there and also one large piece just above the data file, which was about an inch long or so. The small pieces seem to have been drifting all about.
Roger. [Long pause.]
And 15, we didn't forget your state vector. It's just that the one you've got on board is very good. We don't need - we feel we don't need an update.
Okay.
Just polishing off a hamburger and French fries down here. What's on the menu up there tonight?
Oh, stand by a minute, Karl.
Hey, Houston, 15.
15, go ahead.
Okay, we're just getting ready to do some chlorination here, and we find we've got a leak around the chlorine port - with a cap on it - seems to be leaking water. And you might take a look at that real quick and see if you can come up with any ideas on the thing. The cap is on and Jim was just getting ready to take the cap off and noticed a little water; and, in trying to clean it up, it seems like we're accumulating a fair size - fair amount of water right now, right around the cap.
Can you give an - give us an estimate of how many drips per second it is?
Yeah, it's a - it's a pretty good flow right now. Drips per second, it's hard to measure; it's a whole ball of water right around that valve right now.
Rog... [Pause.]
What we need is a check valve that we can close or get to, to isolate that port, if we can get one.
Dave, I - I had a problem when I chlorinated on launch day. And, when I first took the valve off, I had about what you've got - quite a strong flow. The cap - the cap stops it from flowing when you put it back on, and after I chlorinated, the flow decreased down to a very slow drip, say once a minute.
Oh, this is a big run, Karl, and the cap is on tight, and it - you can almost feel something flowing beneath the cap.
Okay, stand by. Lots of people [are] thinking down here now.
[Garble]. [Long pause.]
Houston, 15. It seems to be leaking from behind that panel there, right behind where the waste tank servicing valve is, and the potable tank inlet - and it's accumulating at a pretty good rate.
We copy.
Hey, Houston; 15. Got any suggestions yet? We need to isolate this thing pretty quick.
In - just a minute. [Long pause.]
What was... [Long pause.]
15, this is Houston. Our recommendation is that on [panel] 351, you turn the Water and Glycol Tanks Pressure, Regulator, Off. On [panel] 352, turn the Potable Tank Inlet, Off. [Pause.]
Okay. Potable Tank Inlet is now closed, and say again the other one.
Up on panel 351, Water and Glycol Tanks Pressure, Regulator, Off. [Long pause.]
Okay, Water and Glycol Tanks Pressure, Regulator is Off. [Long pause.]
15, Houston. That should - that should have taken the pressure off of the Potable Water Tank; is it helping the situation any?
No, it's still leaking, Karl; pretty good rate. [Pause.]
Roger; stand by.
Houston, [it] looks like maybe we ought to start dumping out of the waste [water tank] so we can dump out of the potable tanks. It's still leaking and we've got everything but the check valve between the Potable Tank and the chlorine nozzle isolated. [Long pause.]
We copy, Dave. No comments yet. Stand by.
15, Houston. We note the pressure in your tank coming down. In the meantime, we suspect that the [pause] we suspect that the fitting there on your chlorine injector outlet is loose, and we have - we have a procedure here for tightening it up.
Okay; give it, quick.
Roger. We need tool number 3 and tool number W out of the toolkit.
Okay; 3 and W out of the toolkit.
Right; put - put number 3 in the tool W ratchet, and insuit - sert tool 3 in the hex opening in the chlorine injector port.
Okay. That's - that looks like where it's probably leaking. [Long pause.]
And, once we have the number 3 tool in the hex opening, it should go in about a quarter of an inch to really engage. It also says "use caution when inserting the tool because it comes in contact with a rubber diaphragm." [Pause.]
Okay. [Pause.]
We've agreed down here it's a good idea to take the water gun to fill up a food bag or something of that sort.
Okay. [Pause.]
Once you've got tool number 3 well engaged in that injection port, turn it about a quarter turn.
Okay, Houston. It looks like that did it.
Wonderful. [Long pause.]
Nice to have the quick response you guys have down there.
Well, you'll never believe it, but after we had the leakage on the morning of the 26th [launch day], somebody sat down and wrote up a special procedure, just in case.
Well, that was good thinking because we about had a small flood up here.
15, Houston. We're looking now at the best procedure for getting the water system operating again. In the meantime, we trust you have your hands full of water up there.
Oh yeah. All we have to do now is hang out a few towels to dry, but it looks like we're in good shape.
Very good. [Long pause.]
15, Houston. We'd like for you to turn the Regulator back on, on panel 351.
Okay. Regulator coming back on.
15, Houston. Is everything looking all right on the leak now?
Yeah; it looks okay. That fitting there that we tightened up went somewhere between - 180 - 270 degrees of turn. And that - that was where the water was coming from, and it looks like it's secure now.
We copy.
Hey, Karl. We just ran a little check with our slide rule here, and it was something like 3,000 drips per minute.
Okay guy...; glad to hear that good news. I - I guess up there you don't get drips, do you; that's an interesting fact.
Rog. [Pause.]
Okay, Dave. We're ready to open the Inlet valve to the Potable Water Tank.
Okay; Potable Water Inlet coming open.
Incidentally, Dick [Gordon] was over at Lurton's [Dave's wife] and they called up to say "Hey, it's about time you take a bath up there."
Well, we were sort of discussing that a little earlier tonight anyway. And, as a result, well, I guess we all got cleaned up.
Good enough. [Long pause.]
And, Houston, with the fitting secure now and everything ship-shape, what do you think about proceeding ahead with the chlorination. [Pause.]
Okay, Dave. Go ahead. [Long pause.]
Houston, 15.
15, this is Houston. The word here is to go ahead. [Long pause.]
Houston, 15.
15, this is Houston. Are - are we in comm[unication] now?
Rog. And we've got you. With everything looking ship-shape down here, what do you think about proceeding with the chlorination?
Okay, Dave. Go ahead.
All righty.
15, this is Houston. Is Jim doing some exercising now? We're doing a little medical detective work down here.
Why, yes, as a matter of fact, he is. He's trying to get one of the compartments open.
Roger.
CapCom's with you. [Pause.]
Houston, 15. Go ahead.
15, this is Houston. Please disregard. [Pause.]
Okay, I'll disregard.
Houston, Apollo 15.
15, go ahead.
Okay; we've got the presleep checklist if you're ready to copy. [Pause.]
Gko ahead, Dave.
Okay; crew status is good. No medication today. Onboard read-outs: Bat C, 37.0 [volts]; Pyro Bat A, 37.2; B, 37.2; RCS A, 89 [per cent remaining]; B, 86; C, 89; and D, 86. And the H2 fans have been cycled, and the potable water has been chlorinated, and the vents and switches are all set. The cabin's [pressure] at 5.7 [psia, 39.3 kPa], and I'll give you an E-memory dump any time you're ready.
We copy; and stand by on memory dump.
Okay. You might be interested in another little item. All the meals have been consumed on schedule, and the - the pantry's even had a pretty rigid test so far.
Excellent. [Pause.]
And our trusty LMP came up with an interesting analogy relative to the last event. He wondered if the original Endeavour had ever sprung a leak like that.
Hey; that's a good question. We'll get our historians out to check that one. [Pause.] Hey, what did you do with all that extra water? Stick it overboard, or drink it, or what?
Oh, no; we've got a bunch of towels hanging up in the tunnel right now. Looks like somebody's laundry. [Pause.]
Sy [Liebergot]'s down here guessing that you hosed some of it overboard.
Well, you probably saw the motion of the spacecraft. We were just in that process when you came up with a procedure.
[Laughter.] Okay; fine. The PTC's still looking great.
Oh, good. [Long pause.]
Okay, Dave. We're ready for the E-mod dump.
Okay; here it comes.
15, Houston. We finished the E-memory dump. The Surgeon - the Surgeon says that it's - it's your turn in that biomed harness. And, otherwise, we - don't have any - anything more down here. And, we're ready to secure - the - the voice communications any time you like.
Okay; very well. By the way, how are the biomed harnesses working out for the Surgeons? [Pause.]
The word is that we're getting good clean data, and they're very happy with it.
Okay; very well. See you in the morning.
Roger. Good night.
