15, Houston.
Houston, 15.
We've just got through with the playback, and we've got excellent burn data down here. And, if you'll give us Accept we'll send up a REFSMMAT.
Okay; you've got P00 and Accept.
Thank you.
And Houston. We're over Mare Crisium at the present time, and the sights are really striking. I guess some of the interesting things we've noted is the variation in albedo from white to dark gray with many variations of gray in between. And many times, this albedo change appears without any significant change in topography, other than perhaps a - a mountain ridge or a chain or a wrinkle ridge or something, but there are many vari - variations in the albedo all over the surface. I guess our general consensus is that it's gray. We haven't noticed any brown yet.
Excellent. If I'm not mistaken, this is probably the first time men have been over Crisium.
I guess that's probably right.
We have everything from the very old subdued craters that are almost completely washed out to the very bright fresh ones which have interior walls of almost pure white.
We're lapping it up down here. Keep talking if you feel like it.
Another interesting fact that - that we've all noticed is that it - it looks like a great desert across which we've had a number of dust storms. And, in many places, you can see the - the tracks or the swirls across the surface which looks like the - a great dust storm has been blowing across the surface - primarily indicated by the albedo change. But all over Crisium, you can see the streaks, which obviously are from impact at some point or another, but the impression we get is that the result of a dust storm.
Very interesting. 15. The computer is yours.
Say again.
The computer is yours.
Okay.
Karl, this is Al. I'd have to say pretty much what Dave's been saying. You might be interested to know that we're coming up over Peirce right now, and just about to hit the west rim of Mare Crisium, and kind of looking forward to taking a look at Proclus as we get up a little bit closer here. There are a couple of craters just to the north - northeast corner, and we'll pin point those a little better for you later. A very, very small crater that looks like it's had some dark material slide down into the crater, the eastern wall of the inside of the crater has some very dark material in it, and at - at this Sun angle, it doesn't appear that it's shadow.
Okay; we copy.
And, you know, as we look at all this after the many months we've been studying the Moon, and learning all the technical features and names and everything, why - when you get it all at once, it's just absolutely overwhelming. There are so many different things down there, and such a great variety of land forms and stratigraphy and albedo, that's it's hard for the mental computer to sort it all out and give it back to you. I hope over the next few days we can sort of get our minds organized and get a little more precise on what we're seeing. But I'll tell you; this is absolutely mind-boggling up here.
Gentlemen, I can well imagine that a foreign planet must be a weird thing to see.
And we've got Proclus in view right now.
Excellent. Tell us about it if you have a chance.
Well, the - the rays extending from Proclus are very light in color for about they're very light color for about - oh, 240 to 260 degrees around, and then there's a region of dark mare or albedo. And our - our orientation presently with the spacecraft is such that we have - we're having a tough time figuring out north and south; and, once we get on an orbit track, we'll be able to give you direction a little bit better. But the inner walls of Proclus are very light in color, almost white. The outer walls - the outer ring has a somewhat light gray appearance and the difference in the - the rays is really between a light and a dark gray as distinguished from the inner walls which are quite white. The - the walls exhibit some debris on the upper slopes, maybe the upper 30 percent. I can see, on one side of the - the crater, some large blocks. On another side, I can see what appears to be a large slump block or a large slumping of the wall that goes about halfway down and takes about - oh, 15 degrees of the rim of the crater with it. The floor is very irregular and rough, almost a constant gray - medium gray color, somewhat darker than the light gray on the outside rays and somewhat lighter than the dark gray on the - the surface, which does not seem to be covered with a ray pattern. There are a few ridges on the floor, arcuous ridges, and some domes which are quite prominent. And I'm sure when Al comes back over here later on and has a chance to study it carefully, he can give you a - a good accurate picture.
Beautiful.
15, we would like to have Track to Auto on the High Gain. And, for your information, the Saturn IVB impact is going to take place in just a few minutes. It's going to be a - in a...
Okay; very good. I wish we were in a...
Right. It's 2 minutes, 40 seconds, but it's going to be out of your visual range, somewhere around the center area of the Moon.
Rog. It's too bad we won't get to see it. We'd already taken a look at the map to see if we'd have a chance, but I guess we'll miss that one.
Houston, 15, we're coming up to Serenitatis, and it really looks like an ocean. The landforms, as we approach, are very rugged, very highly cratered, rounded, and we get to the shoreline and we see a few wrinkle ridges that have smoothed out. And we can see, on the far side, on the horizon, the mountains which pick up again on the western side of Serenitatis.
Roger 15.
Okay, Karl. We're coming up over Serenitatis now. We're almost over le Monnier and we can see the Littrow area just out in front of us. And it is, in fact, about three different shades. You can see the - in the upland area, and particularly what looks like down in the valleys, a darker color, and it does look like it's a light powdering - or dusting-over of the entire area. And then, as you get out further into Mare Serenitatis, there's another layering which is a little bit lighter in color. And that - out at the last edge of the wrinkle ridge, out beyond that is the last layer, and the rest of Serenitatis looks fairly - fairly light in color. So I'd say that the - the - centeral - central part of Serenitatis is light, out beyond the first wrinkle ridge is a darker layering, and we're not up close enough to see what it is yet, and then as you get up into the highlands around le Monnier and Littrow area itself, there's what - what appears to be a - a light dusting of dark material, and it certainly looks volcanic from here. Off to - to the left of that, to the south, we can pick up Sulpicius Gallus pretty clearly right now.
Roger, Al. Sounds like you're seeing a marvelous amount of detail up there.
Well, after - after the King's training, it's almost like I've been here before.
You can't help yourself, can you.
And, Karl. We're approaching the Apennine Mountains, and that is indeed a spectacular view.
Roger...
Sure is, Karl. No question about those mountains being there and where we're at with them.
They stand up on your horizon, do they?
Yeah; tremendous relief as we approach the mountains, Karl.
Roger. And, for your information, gentlemen, we're getting a good seismic signal from the impact of the Saturn IVB.
15, this is Houston. There is no update required on your T - on your TEI-4 PAD.
Okay, Houston; understand. Houston, as we cross out of Serenitatis into the Apennines, why, it's just - unreal. You know, those are very poor descriptive terms, but the - mountains jut up out of the 'ocean' here in great relief. I'm sure the guys who've been here before can probably sit down over a cup of coffee and tell you. But the relief is really pervasive.
You're the first man to fly over this mountain range, Dave. I guess pretty soon you're going to be over the - over the landing site, aren't you?
Rog, but I'm afraid it'll be dark today.
That's right.
Karl, this is Al again. Looking down into Sulpicius Gallus area, looking at some of the wrinkle ridges and some of the rilles - the arcuate rilles down there, I can make out some distinct color patterns that seem to run parallel to the arcuate rilles - and along the wrinkle ridges, and there is a very subtle darker color, again almost as if it was - some kind of cinder fallout along the ridges and along some of the rilles.
Roger, Al.
And Houston; we're coming up here on the terminator and the area, I guess we call Crackled Hills really looks like crackled hills. If you distinguish between the mountains, which are very prominent and smooth, the surface between the first small mountain range and the - what is now the terminator, is relatively flat with a very rough texture - very irregular, lower, crackled hills.
We copy, Dave.
Jim's - Jim calls it a gun-metal gray, and that's a - a very good term, I think, for the color that we're seeing now. And as we approach the terminator, of course, the relief stands out even more. The shadows are getting much longer, and the peaks of the mountains, as they're silhouetted against the - the Crackled Hills, seem to have a - a diffuse shadow at the top. The shadow, as it goes from the base of the mountain to it's peak, is very sharp. And around the top of the mountain, it becomes more diffuse, not - not quite as sharp and begins to blend in with the - the surface on which it's being cast.
Roger, Dave. Sounds very interesting.
Houston, we're trying to get oriented here so we can perhaps pick out some of the features near the landing site. There's quite a bit of shadow now, but we have Aristillus and Autolycus very clearly. And with the low sun angle, the surface between those two large craters and the rim of Imbrium - the eastern rim of Imbrium is very rough, quite a bit of debris, and it looks like it probably came out of the two craters. I believe we can see Hadley C, just barely in the shadows.
Roger, 15. We copy that. Did I understand that the rim of Autolycus is standing up in the sunlight?
Yes, that's true. Aristillus and Autolycus both have their eastern rims exposed to the sunlight and we get a pretty good look at the elevation on the rim. And Autolycus, to it's north eastern side, seems to have a - a saddle or somewhat depressed rim. And as you come around to the west - or the eastern side of Aristillus, it seems to be relatively level or horizontal, with a few subtle saddles and depressions. Autolycus appears to have a - a relatively horizontal or - or even rim all the way around, and we can see sunlight on the northwestern side of Autolycus, on the rim, just barely a tick of it.
Roger. It sounds like a fantastic view.
It really is.
you guys have enough to keep you busy for a few days then?
Hey, Dick, we've got enough to keep us busy for months, and months, and months, as you well know.
The outer rims of Aristillus and Autolycus seem to be quite heavily cratered and rough; and Aristillus, on it's east-northeastern side, seems to have a couple of benches on the outer rim as it goes down to the surface, and their - the shadows are - are exposed quite well.
Roger, Dave.
Houston, just north of Conon, there's a - a great depression in the mountains - a low part of the mountains. In the - The western side of the mountains is exposed to the sunlight, and this reflects back in to the shadowed part of the mountains which - the base - basin, just north of Conon there, is really shadowed by the eastern mountain range; but the reflectivity back from the - the mountains exposed to the sunlight illuminates the - the shadowed area to where we can pick out craters and ridges and various other topographic features. It's - its really quite interesting. As a matter of fact, just to the - The inner walls or the inner basin of Conon itself is illuminated by its own reflectivity on its western wall.
Roger. That sounds like a fascinating illumination. Do you - do you have any inclination that you're going to be able to see the dark side of Moon with Earthlight on it?
Well, we can just barely see subtle features now, I think. We can see the horizon quite clearly.
Roger. When you get dark-adapted, it may be that things will come through pretty well.
Rog.
15, this is Houston.
Roger. Houston, 15. Go.
Jim, the people down here would appreciate it if you could give them something of a description of the operation of the PU valve during the LOI burn.
Roger, Karl. There was no operation of the - the PU valve at all until crossover. And then at crossover, it required a - a Decrease, and then at about - about 5 minutes and a half into the burn, it started to increase, and I went to the - the Increase position at that time. All the operation of the PUGS manual operation occurred after crossover.
Okay; we copy.
And, as I mentioned, about 5 and a half, I went to - 5 and a half minutes, I went - went to neutral and then the - it looked like the Unbalance was going to go - it was rapidly departing the zero region, and that was about the time we went through 6 minutes, and I put it into minimum at that time - into the Decrease position.
Okay, Jim. That answered our next question.
And, 15, the people down here were very much turned on by your description of the swirls on the floor of Crisium. We trust you got some good photography of that; and, if you didn't, they'd very much appreciate having some next time around.
Okay. We were discussing our photography, and we're going to try and stay as close to the preplanned photos as we can and not over extend ourselves into what's already planned for the six days. But we will use our spare - spare film judiciously for the kind of things you hear us talk about that you'd like pictures of.
Sounds very good.
15, this is Houston. Joe just came up from below to tell us that Farouk and company are ecstatic about what you've told them so far and that all of the SIM bay experiments are looking to be in excellent shape.
Okay. Thank you, Karl. That's good news.
15. We have your torquing angles.
Roger. Torqued on the minute.
says it's just - He got word from the back room that Farouk and his boys are ecstatic. And the SIM bay stuff is all working very well.
Good old SIM bay working up in there and he's jumping up and down. Well, the tape motion is going as planned. Even a little early. Okay.
No, I don't think we have time then have to get that in..? You'll spoil the eat period by messing with the...
Okay, 10 minutes before the dump, Jim.
Man, is that full.
DOI.
Hopefully, DOI is just going to be a bank B burn. Is that right?
Apollo 15, This is Houston.
Houston, Apollo 15. Go.
Just to firm up our interest in those swirls on the floor of Crisium, the words we'd like to send up is that it'd be nice to get a 3-photo convergent stereo sequence on it, and if you'd like settings, we recommend...
Okay; 3 photo; go.
You son of a bitch! He always stops.
Roger. And if you'd like settings, we recommend f/8 at 1/250th with a 250 millimeter lens.
I'm going to give Karl about 6 seconds every time, before I answer.
Okay, Houston; understand. Swirls on Crisium, 3-photo convergent stereo, f/8 1/250th with the 250.
Roger. And Al, you wanted us to remind you about your helmet and gloves when you take shots of Ingenuity this time around.
Okay; we'll tell him.
You wanted to be reminded about helmets and gloves as you take your shots of Ingenuity on this time. What the hell does that mean?
And, otherwise, we have nothing more down here. Everything's looking in great shape, and have fun on the back side.
Okay. Thank you, Karl. We will.
Rather than the glasses? Yes.
we going to start running our clock then at the 180-degree point, too, don't we?
Yes.
much time is up.
No. Not yet.
These 250's I guess you take with the brackets, huh? Yes? Out of which window? Center window?
You got a bunch of other ones here. This one's a 33 frames at 15-second intervals. All - all this 250 stuff is...
Yes. Okay. That's right. That's right. You asked why you brought that bracket along once, didn't you?
Just push that button underneath it, Dave.
Oh. There's a. Look at that.
Anyone else have a Jumney bag they want dumped?
No.
1/250th.
250's already rolling.
You guys want anything to eat?
What?
Yes. Eighty-five pictures, Mag M, frame number 30 which would be frame number 43.
Hey, I think I shorted someone a lemon pudding. A lemon pudding.
I've got one.
I don't think Al has. I've got one over here opened - that Al can have.
I've - I've got one in my pocket I'm going to eat. You want this one?
And let's don't be hanging stuff up now because we've got another burn coming.
Yes.
Let's get it all taken care of.
Huh? I ate mine.
Then you opened another one, huh?
I thought I had the - the fruit cocktail. Here, throw that in the bag. Thank you.
Well, can we get the - we got to - when we get through all that stuff this evening, let's get all the garbage and take it down to the food locker.
Yes. It's time to dump, isn't it?
Yes. I expect it is. That's all right, we'll close.
Can I dump?
Yes.
Okay.
Dump the waste, too.
Dumped that dead band.
The dump?
Hey, you got coming up - Sea of Ingenuity, Crisium, Keyhole Crater, The Bright One, and Ibn Yunus -.
That's - Oh, yes. There's a possibility of 10. And - then you do the realign. You got a lot of pictures to take. Wh - where do you want to take them?
Okay. Why don't you just tell us, you know, which window, and we'll go to wherever...
Oh, okay.
five.
Dave, did you say you're doing a waste water dump now?
Yes.
No, I've got another for that.
I thought there was one here.
I think you was going to put it on the Flight Plan. Okay. There's one here, Dave.
that waste water's something that's got to go. Certainly have a lot of it.
It's probably done.
Huh?
It's probably done.
What...
How can you tell?
It's slow.
Oh, I see. The waste water dump.
Yes.
a small.
Got a lots of things to dump?
Here, I'll put that in the bag, Al.
There it is. You got it?
Okay, the urine dump's complete.
Oh, really? All that stuff?
Yes.
Okay.
What'd you have the timer set up for, Dave?
Waste water dump. To make sure I checked it when it went off.
You dumping down to 15?
Yes. You might just watch it if you're there. Al's moving over.
He's of you.
Yes. Time to look for more..
Jim, you see my scissors up there?
Yes.
Thank you.
That looks good.
We got sunrise. Coming up on sunrise. Yes. Oh, gee. That's bright.
See, you can just barely see the horizon.
See the horizon out there, see it?
Oh, look at that. Isn't that something! Hey, you got to take a picture of that.
Huh? Isn't that something? Oh, boy.
Golly!
Okay. Believe that waste water dump's done. I'll go down and get it.
I'll get it. I'm right here.
Okay. down to 20.
Okay. Yes.
Yes. It looks like a snow-covered prairie. And doesn't that look like a brown to you?
Now it does. Yes. Hey, that's - Just got to have a picture of that.
Okay.
Wouldn't that make a great Christmas card?
Hey, wouldn't it, though?
Yes, that view right from this window. Look at that.
Yes, it's almost the same over here. Huh? Where's - I can't hear you, Al.
Ring sight.
Yes, there's one - the only one I know of right now - I can get you one. I know where there's one. There' s a ridge here, Jim. A prominent ridge - we're coming across. That's just absolutely striking. I don't believe it. Ring sight. Yes.
No, I can't get to it now, Al. Buried. Too much junk. Hey, Al, use the - edge - the - the corner of the camera. Let me show you. Let me show you how to aim that thing so you hit. See this thing? See? Right along this edge here. Line that up. Just take all the parallax out and line that up and it's a straight shot.
Hey, Jim, is the waste water stopped?
Yes, I turned the dump off.
You did?
Yes.
So did I. How could you have turned...
No. Oh, I'm sorry. The urine dump.
You - you're not lis...
Oh - Oh, okay. Waste water...
Yes. You're not paying attention to me again, Jim.
25 percent.
Okay.
He closed it.
You're right. Yes.
You wanted me to confirm that it had been closed.
Yes, right.
I don't see a drop anymore.
Okay..
Huh?
Can't see that ridge you were talking about, Dave.
You're going across it. Right where the terminator comes out. No, that's the horizon. Okay. I'm. Yes.
Isn't that a good boy, Al?
Hey, Jim, here's this little vent.
Okay.
Yes.
Jim, I don't see.
I see. That's - Ingenuity over there on the...
Hey, Jim, what did you do with those tissues that were over here? Remember?
I didn't use any of them, Dave.
No, but - there wasn't any of those little...
Those medium?
What?
The very subdued rille that runs aro - perpendicular to the mountain? Oh, I see what you mean. Along the edge of the - Is that on the edge of? Of Ingenuity, huh?
I can keep you posted here about - You take - you take photos until about 49 here.
This must be Gagarin coming up.
Yes.
Think I have better luck holding the map backwards.
That's Gagarin we're over, huh?
Do you know what Keyhole looks like? Geeze. That's the kind of thing that would be good to explore.
There's that neat one with the very white ejecta pattern - out at 1 o'clock.
Do you want to the window?
Yes.
I think we better get this - all the windows down.
Yes. I think we better leave. You know you don't have to get them all, Al..
Oh, yes.
might be Auto.
Hey, Jim?
Yes.
You got your sunglasses?
Not quite, Al. Did you just pass me some sunglasses, Dave?
Yes.
Okay.
I think they're yours. Aren't they?
Yes.
You can see that - see the canyons on it?
Find Keyhole, Al? Good.
What's distinctive about Keyhole?
Oh, really?
I can sure see a lot - lot of blocks around this one coming up. A lot of blocks on the rim. And a slump on the - the west side of it.
Okay, the next one is target number 7, Al. It's The Bright One.
That's...
The one with slump blocks in the center of it?
The one we're just coming up on, huh?
Yes. That's it. Yes, that's Dooze. Bright One. Yes, that's the one we want to get a - complete - We want two pictures of the ejecta pattern all the way along through there.
Yes, there's King over there.
Hey, Jim?
Yes.
Hey, Jim, take care of that little map. That's the only one we got - you and I.
Yes, I understand.
Take good care of it.
No, we have another set - Well, the only one of the little ones. Yes, you're right. Don't ask for, huh?
By golly, old Bright Crater is a bright one, too. It's got good ray pattern. Glass all over.
Geesh.
O2 Flow High.
Okay, let's see. Let's try to get this Rooster Tail.
The next target you have is Ibn Yunus.
Yes, but I'm going to try and see if I can get a shot of the Rooster Tail here if I can.
That won't go anywhere.
You what, Jim?
Ibn Yunus ought to be coming up on the left side here shortly.
Yes. Should be.
Oh, look at the Earth come up - Earthrise. all day, we ought to look at that.
Oh, yes.
you don't.
Yes.
Golly.
That ought to be good for a picture, huh?
Oh, yes. Be better when you're.
Yes. I got part of the LM in the way there.
Let me see here - let me - Yell if you see the Rooster Tail.
I'm not sure what the Rooster Tail looks like, Al.
That's that little secluded - dome on a - on a ca - on a small crater that Farouk was showing us the other day.
Yes, I think there's one...
That a...
coming up here - that...
It should be quite obvious if you see it.
Well, there's kind of an occluded area to the west.
It looks - it looks very much like a rooster tail.
Yes.
See the one coming up, Dave,... in the occluded area - to the west?
Is that the one.
Yes, I think it's very fresh.
Should it be right on track?
Yes. Right underneath.
There's one underneath us. Big rille and.
Could that be it - the one we're just coming up on, Al?
Yes. That's it. Must be it.
a shot of it here.
Yes.
There's Babcock out there.
Hey, Al, can I do a Verb 62 in this P20 or will it kick it back out?
No. It'll keep it in.
Maybe I ought to get up there and do one...
Yes. It should. It should work.
Fifteen and 12.
Fifteen and 12?
Uh-huh.
15, This is Houston.
Rog, Houston. Looks like we're getting locked up now.
Roger. That looks better now.
Okay, Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Okay, Karl. While I got a minute here waiting on Crisium to show up, I'll give you a run down on what we've done so far.
Go ahead.
Okay; we got the strips of photos of the Sea of Ingenuity - or Ingenii - and took a look at the light colored swirls in the bottom of the mare. I couldn't tell - no elevation associated with those light-colored swirls, and they're very distinct when you look at them at this angle. Also - looked at the - at the area just adjacent to Ingenii; there is a very definite valley that cuts through the edge of the wall there, and with what looks like a rille in the bottom, what's been described as Vallis Alpha Reed - I guess it is kind of unique; it's the only one we've seen on the back side so far. We took some pictures of the rim deposits and then took a couple of shots going on out to Dumbbell. After that we got set up for a Keyhole, took some convergent stereo on Keyhole, and got a couple of shots of The Bright One, along with some - some general pictures to show the ejecta pattern, although I'm afraid that ejecta pattern on The Bright One is not going to show up too well. It's - it's very bright but it's - it's also such a large area that it's kind of indistinct as to definition. And then - took a couple of what I hope will be convergent stereos of the - of the rooster tail along by Tangor and then got on to Ibn Yunus/Al-Biruni/Goddard complex and took some convergent stereo of the swirls to the - to the west of Ibn Yunus and to north and west of Goddard. And now we're looking for the ones in Mare Crisium.
Roger, sounds like you did it up brown.
Well, it does look - sometimes brown, sometimes gray, Karl. But we'll see when we get back.
Hey, let's keep those colors straight, fellows.
15, we can take High Gain to Auto now.
15, we need to go back to Reacq - on the High Gain.
Rog. Reacq.
Houston, 15.
15, go ahead.
Okay, Karl. Just a couple of general observations on Crisium while we're coming up on it. Proclus coming up from the east is really spectacular. You can very distinctly see the - the difference in the - in the color or the albedo in the excluded zone of Proclus, and as you are coming up across Crisium with Proclus ahead, you can see the ray pattern very distinct - extending out across Crisium - and follow the ray patterns almost as far as you like. And the excluded zone in the - in the ray pattern is just very distinct at this point.
Excellent.
And, Houston, from this angle looking at Proclus about a crater diameter out to maybe a diameter and a half or so, you can see many small bright fresh craters, which appear to be in the general direction of a ray, like part of the ejecta blanket.
Roger, Dave. You mean to say that these small bright craters seem to be clearly related to the ejecta blanket. Is that correct?
That's the impression I get. They occur within a diameter to a diameter and a half of Proclus and - they're about the same brightness as the inner walls of Proclus and they're small - just small craters. I don't see any - Yes, I do see one which you might call a loop, which would suggest secondaries. They just seem to lie in the general direction of the rays of the ejecta from Proclus.
We copy.
They're sort of localized to one area which is - probably - yeah, on the - on the western side of Proclus, northwest side.
We copy that.
Do you - do these small, bright craters have more or less a uniform size or do they come in varied sizes?
I'd say - Karl, this is Jim - I'd say they're various sizes.
Okay.
It is - I - I guess it depends, Karl, on - what do you mean by sizes. There are various sizes within a certain sorting. They - they seem to be fairly well sorted within one range, but within that range, there is a distribution. And they're all much, much smaller than Proclus.
Okay, we copy.
15, this is Houston. If you'll give us Accept, we'll send up a - a state vector and a target load.
Roger. You have it.
And, 15, we don't require a PIPA bias check at this time. And I have a terminator photo PAD when you're ready to copy.
Okay. Stand by one.
And I'm ready for the terminator photo PAD, Karl.
Roger. The T start is 81:44:10, and there's a note here that the PCM cable may not reach to window 3. And if it doesn't, go ahead and run on the intervalometer alone. And this pertains to all future photography in window 3.
Roger. We understand.
15, we'd like to go to Auto again, and go directly from Reacq to Auto without a pause.
You're in Auto.
The High Gain looks good this time; thank you.
Roger.
15, Houston. When you can copy, I have both a DOI PAD and a TEI-5.
Stand by one, Karl.
Okay. I'm ready to copy the PAD.
Roger. DOI; SPS/G&N; 39800, plus 1.68, minus 0.55; 082:39:48.29; minus 0208.4, minus 0048.0, plus 0002.0; 000, 283, 347; 0058.4, plus 0009.2; 0213.9, 0:24.5, Delta-VC is 0208.4; 33, 144.2, 35.7; the rest is NA. Set stars, Vega and Deneb; 288, 340, 346. Ullage is 4 quads, 15 seconds - 15 seconds.
And the computer is yours.
Okay, Karl, if you're ready, here's the readback for the DOI PAD. SPS/G&N; 39800, plus 1.68, minus 0.55; 082:39:48.29; minus 0208.4, minus 0048.0, plus 0002.0; 000, 283, 347; 0058.4, plus 0009.2; 0213.9, 0:24.5, 0208.4; 33, 144.2, 35.7; Vega and Deneb; 288, 340, 346; 4 quads, 15 seconds.
That's all correct. And your next is a TEI-5 PAD.
All right, go ahead.
TEI-5, SPS/G&N; 38206; plus 0.58, plus 1.01; 088:25:47.09; plus 2864.3, minus 1227.7, minus 0317.0; 180, 091, 338; the rest is NA. Set stars, Vega and Deneb; 288, 340, 346. 4 jets, 12 seconds. This - Comments are that the burn is undocked and it assumes DOI.
Okay. TEI-5 readback. SPS/G&N; 38206; plus 0.58, plus 1.01; 088:25:47.09; plus 2864.3, minus 1227.7, minus 0317.0; 180, 091, 338; Vega and Deneb; 288, 340, 346; 4 jet, 12 seconds. Undocked and assumes DOI.
That's all correct.
Apollo 15.
15, go ahead.
Okay, as a quick review here, DOI is a single bank burn on B, with nominal procedures, with the exception of having the A Pilot Valve open.
That's affirmative, and if we have no ignition, we'll postpone the burn [for) a rev.
Roger; understand.
15, this is Houston. We're showing a low voltage on the battery relay bus down here. We think it's just a matter of instrumentation, but there's a couple of procedures we'd like to run through here to check it out.
Go ahead, Karl.
Okay; first of all, we'd like read - have an onboard read-out of the battery relay bus voltage, which is B-5 on the test meter.
Okay. That's 5-B.
Roger.
It's reading 2.4 - No, I'm sorry, 1.4 - 1.5.
Roger that reading.
Okay, Dave moved the - stand by. Dave wiggled the selector to the right - That's on B and the position that backs the B position and now we're reading 3.5.
Roger. And we just recovered our read-out of - We got a good voltage reading down here now.
Good.
Okay; thank you. We'll think on that for a while and everything looks - everything looks fairly normal.
Roger.
15, we have only one more question on that problem. And can you tell us what position you were in before you went to 5-B on the test meter.
B was selected, Karl, but Dave moved the selector out of - just barely out of B and back into the B position to obtain the higher reading.
Roger. And what about the numerical side; was it in 5?
Yes it was.
We copy. Thank you.
15, this is Houston. And I have a map update for rev 3.
Stand by one, Karl.
Okay; go with the map update for rev 3.
Roger. LOS: 82:28:16, 180 is 82:48:42, AOS is 83:14:54.
Okay; understand. LOS: 82:28:16; 180 degrees, 82:48:42; AOS, 83:14:54.
Roger. And while you're on that page, I have information for the landmark J-1 observation.
Okay; go ahead.
T-Hor is 8 - 83:39:33; TCA minus 20, 83:41:25.
Okay, understand. T-Horizon at 83:39:33; TCA minus 20, 83:41:25.
That's correct.
15, this is Houston.
Houston, 15. Go ahead.
It's our understanding that we'd agreed that you'd send down magazine numbers and final frame numbers on each pass on this photography, and if you're in agreement with that, we'd like to have the magazine and frame number on the orbital photography and also on the terminator photography.
That - that's all in an agreement that I've got with Spencer, Karl. I think right now, we're too busy to do that, and after we get the landing out of the way, we'll go back and recap all the film and start from scratch.
Very good.
15, we have your torquing angles.
Rog. Torqued on the minute.
15, this is Houston.
Houston, 15.
One more comment on the battery relay bus voltage. From all indications, it is indeed an instrumentation problem, but we have one more question and that is to confirm that the Main A - Main Bus A and Main Bus B Fuel Cell talkbacks are normal and - and have been normal during this period.
Yes, that's affirmative, Karl. They have been normal.
Thank you. And, at the present time, all the systems, otherwise, are looking fine, and you're Go for DOI.
Okay; understand. Go for DOI.
15, this is Houston. We'd like to verify, over on panel 226, that the O2 Tank 50 Watt Heater circuit breakers, 1 Main B and 2 Main A are open. And, if they're not open, let's open them.
Stand by.
Okay. The two circuit breakers that are open are O2 Tank Heaters, 50 Watts, 1 Main B, and 2 Main A.
Roger. I understand they have been open. Is that correct?
That's correct.
Okay. The reason we ask is that the temperatures weren't quite as we expected. Thank you.
Apollo 15. Omni - Omni Delta please, and we'll go to Charlie a little bit later.
Roger. Omni Delta.
15, this is Houston. As you go around the corner, we'd like to verify that all systems are in good shape. And that the data you have in the Flight Plan for bail-out burn all stand as recorded. The no-burn AOS, you may be interested in, is 83:11:14.
Roger; understand. And we ran all the systems checks up here, and everything looked good, and I copied the AOS time.
Excellent.
Okay. We were up to.
do that..
Getting hungry, Al?
Huh?
seemed like the day was getting along.
We've only got 12 minutes to the burn.
Okay..
Okay, that's right. We're at 12 minutes.
