Apollo 15, Houston.
Houston, 15.
Good morning, Jim. We're waking up you a little early to tell you a few things before you go around the corner because you only have four minutes in the old Flight Plan. So, if you guys are awake and ready to listen, I'll give you a few words.
Okay, Bob. Go ahead.
Okay. At the moment - Okay, one short one. We'd like you to go High Gain Antenna to Auto so we don't lose you just before you go around the corner there.
Okay...
We're in Auto.
And at the moment, 15, you're sitting in a 58.8- by 7.6- orbit; and, at PDI, we're extrapolating you to approximately 33,000 feet. This is with a plus or minus 9,000 feet on top of it, due primarily to the uncertainty of the RLS. Because of this, we're pretty well decided we're going to do a DOI trim, but we're holding a decision on that until after we get the data for this pass, which we'll process, of course, while you're behind the Moon. We're talking about something like a 6-foot-per-second burn and probably targeting for 50,000 feet at PDI. As far as the rest of the spacecraft, all your systems look good. No problems at all during the night. We do have a Pan Camera problem, which may or may not be serious. We're going to look at it later on today after Circ, and we'll be coming up with a procedure for Al for that later on in the day. A short item. We'd like a - during your eat periods if you have the time, also would like you to give us a Gain Step - on the Gamma-ray - up of 1. And we'd like to get a medication report, too, this morning. We apparently missed that last night. Over.
Okay. Copied all that. And no medication.
Copy. And we have a consumable update for you as of 93:30. RCS total was 75, quad Alpha, 76; Bravo, 75; Charlie, 74; Delta, 77; hydrogen 2, tank 1, 84; 2, 81; and 3, 54; oxygen 2, tank 1, 82; tank 2, 86; tank 3, 68. Over.
Okay. Got the consumables update.
Roger.
BME, this is Surgeon.
And, Apollo 15, Houston. You're looking good going around the horn. Systems all look good. At your convenience, while you're down the SIM bay area there, we'd like also the Mass Spec Discriminator to High. Over.
Okay; understand. Mass Spec. Discriminator to High.
Roger.
Your candy, Dave, is in that bag over there. Your breakfast is right here.
Thank you. You're a good guy.
Well, looks - looks like it's about the best way to do it here.
No, 33.
Is it actually a what, plus or minus...
What?
9?
Yes.
Yes; 33's not so bad, except a...
Plus or minus 9; that's a 24.
I don't know whether we can or not. Let me...
Put a - put a 50-degree mark on the window.
Yes. I know it, I want to get ahead. We got - got time to do it now. I just like to get everything done we can, and I'd like to be sitting and waiting.
We should have turned that cabin fan off last night. It wouldn't have been so cool - been less noisy.
Well, I tell you, I woke up at one time - and I listened to the noise, and I thought the thing was off. I thought to myself, 'Great, somebody got up and turned the cabin fan off.'
I was burning up down there. I just about got up and got the hoses... them down there.
Boy, you should have done that before you went to bed. Get yourself some air.
Yes.
Did you get any sleep, Jim?
Yes, about like the first night.
Well, you should have got up and got the hoses then. You need your sleep, babe.
Yes.
Huh! We're moving it. I can't believe it!
The! That biomed is working.
Al has them.
Oh, thanks. Son of a gun.
Well, I reckon what we ought to do is the burn, and then get suited. Burn and then get suited, you know - finish up the burn. You can put on your suit; get it out of the way. Go clear out the tunnel.
Yes. It really is.
I couldn't tell whether the spacecraft was moving or whether Dave was shifting in his couch.
Yes, we must have used a fair amount.
Need some more? I can get it for you.
any more.
You ready?
Yes. Don't push. Just let it go, Jim. Pull it out and let it - and release it. Pull the handle out.
Again?
Just pull out - now let go. That a boy. You don't - you don't push it in. Have you been pushing it in?
Sometimes it sticks.
No, it never - no, it - it - you - it counts up and - it has a little accumulator in there.
Here.
Now, just pull it out and - and let it - and leave it go.
Okay.
The accumulator builds up, and then it'll shoot you. That's where you get your measurement.
Take a shot of cold right here.
All right.
than caught short.
Ready?
Yes.
hot chocolate I just grabbed?
Yes, sure.
this good stuff is for the kid's stamina.
That all right?
The opposite end.
There. Eat it.
Al, I'll leave some bacon squares for you.
remembered.
100 hours and 13 minutes, I think we...
Hmm.
You like bacon squares? I'll leave you some, too.
Too much salt. Too dry and salty for a whole meal. I don't.
Ten minutes until AOS. Huh!
You going to get this PAD on the next rev?
Mm-hmm.
Al, why don't you end I switch off here when...
I'd like to take a crap if I can work it in, Dave.
Okay.
Tell me when.
Apollo 15, Houston.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Houston, Apollo 15. You're 5 by.
Roger. You're 5 by also. And we got three more Flight Plan updates due you, if you're ready.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. First one I'd like to mention's at 95:02 - 95:02. And it reads, in addition to those two lines on the O2 Heaters at the top of the page, we want to add a third line that says "cb O2 Tank 100 Watt Heaters, 3, Main B, Open. Panel 226." Over.
Okay; understand. "cb O2 Tank 100 Watt Heaters, 3, Main B, Open."
Roger. And after you guys give us the PDR read-outs, we'd like to exchange the CMP and CDR PDRs because, Dave, yours appears to be malfunctioning, and they'd like to have two working ones on the surface. Do you copy?
Okay; understand. Exchange CMP and CDR PRDs.
Okay. And the next updates for the LM Activation Checklist. And while you're going - getting that, I'll give you a little update on our expectations for the DOI burn.
Okay. Stand by.
Okay. Go ahead, Bob.
Okay. The update for the Activation Checklist is on page 2-6.
Okay; 2-6. Go.
Okay. We'll delete the third line of step 2. And we'll add a step 5, which reads: 1, "LMP's Suit Isol valve to Suit Flow; Commander's Suit Isol valve to Suit Flow, for 15 seconds." And then "Suit Disconnect, for both." And then 2, is "Suit Gas Diverter, Push/Cabin." What we're doing here, Dave, is basically making sure that we're blowing any glass particles that might have settled in through the little holes into the inlet hoses. Going to blow those out. Over.
Okay; understand. Step 2, scratch the third line. Step 5, "LMP and CDR Suit Isolation to Suit Flow for 15 seconds," and then "Suit Disconnect, for both." And then "Suit Gas Diverter, Push/Cabin." And that sounds like a pretty good idea.
Okay. And, I'll give you a few clues as to what's liable to be coming up for the DOI trim burn. Currently, we're showing a 5.87 perilune on rev 14, which is 35,000 feet plus or minus 9,000 with that RLS uncertainty. And what's being proposed now is not an SPS burn, because it'll be very short, but an RCS burn of 20 seconds which is 3.2 foot per second, which would raise us to 50,000 feet. will cost us about 27 pounds of gas, and we're looking at a TIG time of 95:56, which, you will note, is 20 minutes early - earlier than in the Flight Plan, which means we're going to have to compress some of that stuff together. Over.
Okay. Understand 95:56. And looking over the Flight Plan, it looks like, had we gone on the original DOI trim, we had about 40 minutes of SIM data there. Maybe we can just scratch that.
Roger, Dave. We're just going to have to trim that SIM stuff off a little bit early, because we don't have the time right here.
Okay. I guess what I'm thinking is, it takes us a lot of time to go through that. Turn it on and turn it off. And, of course, we could always use time, but we'll get it.
Dave, we don't show you turned anything on this morning; it's just a long protracted business of turning it off. And I guess, that was - used to be starting after the TV pass. And I guess that - what we're saying right now is it looks like we're going to start turning that off during or before the TV pass.
Okay. You're right, Bob. We'll do that; that looks good.
Okay, and we'll be getting you a real PAD coming up some time soon.
Okay; we'll be standing by.
And, Dave, if practicable, we'd prefer to have it turned off before or after the TV, because then we can watch it being turned off; otherwise we can't see it during the TV. But you can certainly turn part of it off before and part after.
Okay; understand. We - we'll do it sometime other than the during the TV.
Correct.
Okay, Dave. And we got a few updates here for the time after the TV pass, if you're ready to copy. Some other stuff that we are moving up because of this.
Okay; ready to copy. Go ahead.
Okay. At 95:28, we will schedule a "P52, option 3."
Okay. "P52, option 3."
Okay. At 9...
At 95:28.
Roger. At 95:33, we'll delete the "P00 at pitch, 033."
Okay; delete "P00 at pitch, 033" at 95:33.
Roger. At 95:35, we will delete "P52 option 3," and that's the one we've moved up by 7 minutes.
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. And at 95:43, we will delete the "P52 option 1," because we will be staying on landing site REFSMMAT.
Okay; very good. Go ahead.
And at 95:30, we're going to start - we're going to move the activities that start around 95:47 to 95:55. Those will be moved up to 95:30.
Okay. Do you want - Okay, I got it. Fine.
That's that little block there. And the time to show on the Flight Plan anyway is 95:56 for the DOI trim.
Rog; 95:56.
Houston, 15. Is that all you have?
Roger. Sorry Dave. That's the end - for now.
Okay.
Houston, 15.
Go.
Okay, Bob. We've got the TV turned on if you want to catch it down there.
Rog. We'll do our best.
Okay; Houston, 15. We're coming up on the edge of Crisium, and we've got a good picture up here.
Rog. Don't see anything down here yet, but we're anticipating.
15, can we verify that you're in Transmit on the TV switch, please?
Okay; that was the problem. We've got it.
Thank you.
Okay, 15. We got it now. Couple of big holes in the ground out there.
Rog.
That's right, Bob.
Okay; Houston, 15. If you want to orient yourself on a TV there, Bob, we just came over Macrobius A, and the small crater that you just saw - we just went by, is Römer J. We're coming up on - on Römer K here in a moment, which means that very shortly, we'll be coming up over the Littrow Rille - Rimae Littrow.
Roger. We've got our little charts out here.
Okay.
Okay, that looked like Römer J we're just coming up on now. In fact, we'll pan down into it.
Beautiful shot.
Okay, Bob. You can see we're up over one of the Littrow Rilles now. You can see the rille cutting diagonally there from about - 6 o'clock to 2 o'clock across the picture, and you can see some of the wrinkle ridges. In fact, there's a beautiful wrinkle ridge right below us right now.
Roger. I believe you. I see it.
I'll pan up along the wrinkle ridge so you can see. And they're a very, very distinctive thing, now we're out over Mare Serenitatis. You can see some of the Littrow rilles in the background there, some of the graben-type rilles, and some of the wrinkle ridges down on the - on the far - or on the - on the close corner here.
Yeah, we should be coming up on the inner ridge system here in a moment, and we - we'll try and pan down along the - the inner ridge.
Yeah. That looks like the inner ridge system there, and if your picture's like mine, you should be picking it up pretty well.
Those ridges in places look like they could be nothing more than a - than a - than a flow that stopped there - flow front. In other places, they look like the - like a - like it's buckled material underneath, folded to - to give it some elevation.
Roger.
And that was a good one, Al. And if someone, who's not just looking out the window, will give us P00 and Accept, we'll send you up a - not P00, just Accept. Pardon me. We'll give you state vectors and targets...
Okay.
while we're taking a view.
You got it.
Bob, I'm going to pan forward a little bit, and you can see the beginnings of the Apennine Front showing up on the far side of Serenitatis.
Roger. We see that.
And off on the left there, that's the Haemus Mountains around south of the Apennines.
See how - when you're coming up at low altitude on these mountains, how - how striking they are in the distance? It's really hard to miss them, you can see them a long ways away.
I hope you can miss them.
Guess that's up to you guys.
Rog. Speaking of that, the burn attitude's going to be 104 degrees, so you might keep that in mind when you get done here. You're getting kind of close to it now, or - beginning to get close to it.
Okay.
There's a very interesting little fissure just below us here, Bob. It looks like there might be a little flow coming out of it, but it's - it's almost an arrowhead-shaped affair. And, it certainly doesn't have any features like any - any impact. It's very sharp and distinct and makes a very distinct arrowhead. Here we come up on the ridges on the west side of Serenitatis, just at the foothills of the Hadley Apennines.
And you can see, there is - there is some relief as we look back to the south there, there is some very distinct relief in - in - in the shore of Serenitatis, with some wrinkle ridges that follow the contour.
And some - what look like fairly distinct arcuate rilles that also follow the contour. I think that when we get up very close here, you can see...
In - in the field of view there right now is a lineament that looks like it might be some sort of a collapsed lava tube, and you can also see down in here the - the mare material looks like it's pooling in the - in the foothills of the mountains; and in some places, you can even see what appears to be a frozen shoreline, so to speak.
Beautiful, beautiful.
Rog. We can take black now, too.
Okay. Okay, Bob. I'm going to take the TV out of this window and get it located in window 3, so we can all have a good look at the landing site.
Okay.
Sorry about that; we're just a little bit late, but you can see the edge of the rille there as we go beyond it. And you can see the blocky features inside the rille. And now we're out across the plain on the other side. That was very fast.
That was a quickie.
Okay. In the field of view right now, Bob, is the beginnings of Bradley Rille, and you can see it cutting back off to the southwest there.
Roger. Looks kind of like our rille.
Yeah. It does, doesn't it?
Okay, Bob. I guess that about does it. We're at the terminator, and we'll pick up the attitude now.
Okay, and righto.
And, Apollo 15, Houston. We've got a DOI trim PAD for Jim when he's ready to copy.
Morning, Bob. I'm ready to copy.
Roger, Jim. The P30 PAD. Purpose, DOI trim, RCS/G&N; 38264; Noun 48 is NA; 095:56:42.50; plus 0003.1, the last two Noun 88s are 0; 180, 104, 359; Noun 44 is 0059.4, plus 0009.6; 0003.1, 0:20, 0003.1; 30, 192.8, 11.1 the rest of the PAD is NA. GDC Align stars are Vega and Deneb, roll, pitch and yaw are 288, 340, 346. It's a 4-jet RCS burn and we do not want to trim any retrograde residual, so any extra burn you get in that direction, we will not trim. Over.
Okay, Bob. DOI trim PAD readback. RCS/G&N; 38264; 095:56:42.50; plus 0003.1, 0 and 0 for Y and Z; 180, 104, 359; 0059.4, plus 0009.6; 0003.1, 0:20, 0003.1; 30, 192.8, 11.1. Vega and Deneb; 288, 340, 346; 4-jet RCS, no trim of any retrograde residual.
Roger. Copy. Correct, and one last comment: We will not be passing you up a TEI-9 - TEI-19 PAD at this time.
Understand.
And that should take care of all little squares in that MSFN update box at 28 - at 95:25.
Repeat the last one, Bob.
Roger. I was just telling you that fills - that takes care of all squares there at the MSFN update at 95:25. We've taken care of all those in one way or another this morning.
Roger.
Roger.
And, 15, people down here are recommending that you terminate your roll at this attitude to help your P52 before you press on to the burn attitude.
Hey, very good, Bob. Thank you. We will.
Houston, this is 15 with some retraction times for you.
Okay, go ahead.
On the Mass Spec., it was - on the Mass Spec., it was 02:33. On Gamma-ray, 03:09.
Copy, thank you.
It was 2 minutes and 33 seconds, 3 minutes and 9 seconds.
Say again, 15. Was that 233 seconds, and 3 minutes and 9 seconds?
No; 2 minutes and 33 seconds, 3 minutes and 9 seconds.
Roger. We had that; thank you.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead.
Okay, Bob. I'm sitting looking right at the surface with the optics in this attitude. Give me a good roll angle to go to.
Okay; stand by.
Stand by. We're talking about it guys.
Okay, Bob.
Roger, 15. Now that we told you to stop, why don't you press on to the burn roll on 180.
Okay; thanks a lot.
For what? And now, if you lose High Gain by going to the burn attitude before you go around the corner, it will be Omni Delta in the burn attitude.
Roger. Omni Delta.
And, Apollo 15, we'd like Track Auto as you go around the corner here. It'll help us keep you on data for a couple of minutes there at the end. And we've got a couple of stars for you, if you want to take any more advice. And that's a 25 and 26.
Okay; 25 and 26. And you've got Auto.
Thank you.
And, Apollo 15, you're 5 minutes from LOS, looking good, and Go for the burn for DOI trim.
Okay; understand. Go for DOI trim. See you on the other side.
Roger.
