Alfredo, Houston is calling. How are you doing up there?
Good morning, Houston; this is Endeavour. Doing - doing fine. Reading you loud and clear.
Glad to hear from you, Endeavour. We'd like to have Accept, when you have a chance to reach up that direction.
Okay. You've got it.
Roger. And down on panel 230, Mass Spectrometer, Multiplier, High, at your convenience.
Okay. Discriminator's in High.
Thank you. And, I've got that batch of updates there, whenever you can copy.
Okay. I'll wake up first.
Go ahead; enjoy it.
Al, on that mass spectrograph, we want the Multiplier, High and the Discriminator, Low.
Okay; understand. Multiplier, High, and Discriminator, Low.
That's - that's the right way, yeah.
And, if you can reach up to the panel 3 there, we'd like the High Gain, Auto, at your convenience.
Okay; you have it.
And, Al, the computer is yours at anytime.
Okay, Houston. This is Endeavour. I'm ready to copy some updates there, Karl.
Hello, Houston, Endeavour.
Endeavour, this is Houston. The first thing we'd like get through to you are the Mapping Camera photo PADs over on the next page at 119:30.
Okay, Karl. Go ahead.
"Start: 119:34:33; stop: 121:33:02." And a note to that is that the - the - the extend/retract times on the Mapping Camera seem to be getting longer with time, and, until further notice, we'd like for you to record and send down the Delta-T on each extend and retract.
Okay; understand. Yes, those times do seem to be getting longer, and I'll record the Delta-T and tell you what they are.
Roger. And, over there at 119:20, on the mass spectrometer boom retract, it says "record the retract time Delta-T." Instead of "in barber pole," we want all of these in the future "from switch on to gray." That corresponds to what we can monitor here on the ground, and we - we need to - we need to calibrate - comparison of your data and ours. I'm sorry; that's not what we monitor, but this is - this is - this is...
Roger. Instead you want that "switch on to gray."
Right. That compares with our test calibration data, that's what I should say. And while I'm reading up...
Okay.
while I'm reading up to you, I'd also like to get something in on the ECS radiators, the outlet temperature is running high 10 to 15 degrees, primary radiator outlet temperature. And we like for you to verify, first of all, that Flow Control on the ECS Radiators is Auto and Power. Is that the way they're setting?
That's verified. Auto and Power.
Okay. And three circuit breakers over on panel 5, ECS Radiators, Controller, AC1 and AC2 should be closed, and, also Controller Heaters, Main A should be closed. All three closed.
Yes, that's verified. They're all closed.
Okay; thank you. You got a status report to send down to us?
Okay. Got about 5 and a half to 6 hours of sleep in 2 segments. My PRD is reading 23105, but I'm not sure that's any good. And no medication, and standing by for a consumables update, and the rest of it.
Roger. Consumables update. Are you ready?
Rog. Go ahead.
The time is 118:00; RCS total is sixty - is 63; quad A, 63; 64; 61; 64; H2 tank 1, 76.9; 75.6; 51.9; O2 tank 1, 79.3; 87 - 82.5; 61.7.
Roger on the consumables.
Al, if you can listen while you work, I got a couple of short goodies for you before you go round the corner. First of all, the experimenters on the SIM bay are as happy as can be. I think on the Gamma-ray experiment, they say on that first rev data, they have enough to justify the whole flight; they're so happy with it. I have a more complete science report for you, which I will send up on the next rev. And just bringing you up to date on the news, the egress down on the surface will be beginning on schedule in just about one hour.
Hey, that all sounds real good, Karl. And, as you can see, I'm right in the middle of a P52 here. I'll have the second star and the gyro torquing angles in just a second.
Roger.
And if you've got those torquing angles, I'll get them on the minute.
We don't have any CMC data at the present time. You'll have to read them down to us, Al.
Okay, Karl. I'll read them to you. P52: the stars were 01 and 36. The torquing angles were minus 3 balls 28; minus 3 balls 58; plus 3 balls 12; and they were torqued out at 119:05 on the minute.
We copy all of that. Loud and clear. Thank you.
And as you go around the corner Al, all your systems are looking good.
Roger, Karl. Thank you. See you on the other side.
Roger.
Allo, Terre. Salute de l'Endeavour.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How are things going up there?
Roger, Karl. Going okay, I think we might have a problem also with the Mass Spec. boom. Let me give you some times here. The Mapping Camera retracted in 4 minutes and 30 seconds. The Gamma-ray retracted in 2 minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, the Mapping Camera extended in 4 minutes and 30 seconds, the Gamma-ray retracted in 2 minutes and 30 seconds. And the Mass Spec., I let retract for about 4 minutes, didn't get a gray, went to deploy for a few seconds, back to retract for a few seconds, and it finally went gray and retract. So I don't really have a good accumulated time on - on how long it was in barber pole.
We copy.
Al, you may be interested to know that Dave is walking around on the lunar surface now.
Very good, very good.
And I have a Mapping Camera PAD, and a...
I knew it was coming.
and a Flight Plan update for you when you have a chance to copy.
Okay. You caught me right in the middle of breakfast. Stand - stand off on that for a while.
No rush, no rush.
Al, this is Houston. Why don't you go ahead and eat, and let me read up the science summary to you.
Hey, good idea, Karl. Go ahead.
Okay, here we go. In general, all orbital science experiments are working very well, and we have some very happy principal investigators. The X-ray PI reports count rates higher than expected, which gives good spatial resolution. Real time data shows a signature of magnesium, aluminum and silicon, so far. And appear to be differences cropping up between the mare and the highlands. The Mass Spectrometer PI reports good operation with many peaks appearing, and so far they've clearly identified neon and argon. Gamma-ray is happy, with improved data since separation of the LM - and spectral features are appearing in the data. The Alpha Particle experiment reports seeing a radon peak over Procellarum - and possibility of some other peaks over other areas of the Moon. I'll let you know more about - more about that later. The photo team tells us - the photo team tells us that the Mapping Camera is working well - and the laser is going great. The Pan Camera appears to be getting about 80 percent of its frames in good - in good quality despite the V-over-H sensor problem. And in general, they say. "Keep up the good work. It's looking great."
Okay. What's the matter with the V-over-H on the - on the Pan Camera? You indicated yesterday, I guess, that there was a problem with it, but nobody ever explained what the problem was.
Roger, Al. I'm not sure that its well understood - it - it's - all we can say is that it's operation is erratic; sometimes it manages to get the - the motion compensation right, and sometimes it doesn't quite make it. That's the problem we're working on down here trying to understand...
I understand.
in greater detail.
Yeah, okay.
Endeavour, let's have High Gain Antenna, Auto, please.
And going on Auto.
Karl, if you've got a paper and pencil there while I'm - while I'm finishing up breakfast here, let me run down some cameras - magazines with you.
Okay. Hold on a second...
you might see what is left on the mag now.
Hold on a second, and I'll copy those. But there's a Flight Plan change in just a few minutes I'd like to get to you. The Mapping Camera Image Motion, which is scheduled at 120:10, we'd like to have at 120:16.
Okay, understand. You want to slip that down to 120:16.
That's correct.
Mapping Camera Image Motion increase.
That's affirmative, Al. And go ahead with your read-down.
Okay, as promised to Spencer, the mags are as follows. First, the 16 millimeter stuff; mag A's been used a hundred percent; mag B's been used a hundred percent; C and D haven't been used; E's been used about 4 percent; F is still full; G is full; H has been used 25 percent; I, full; J, K, and L are full. Okay, on the Hasselblad, I'll call out the number of frames used. Okay. Mag M, Metro 100 - 1, 5, 3, are the frames used; and Nectar is 42; O is 39; and P and Q are 0; R is 20, and S is 40. And no 35 millimeter film's been used.
That came through loud and clear, Al.
Okay.
Houston, Endeavour.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Okay. Just thought I'd orient you a little bit as to where I am, Karl. At the present time, I am directly over Picard, and I'm coming up on Proclus, here, very shortly. And from this particular angle, looking at Proclus, the fan pattern out of Proclus is really magnificent. It covers about, oh, I'd say 240 degrees of arc, and you can the see ray pattern way, way out into Crisium; way out into - into the highlands, both north, east, and south of Proclus. And, the excluded zone is very well defined. It's very clear where - where the exclusion is. And I'll give you a little better description when we get up closer to it.
That sounds fantastic, Al. Do you think you're going to solve the secret of that excluded zone?
You never know.
Al. Could you please confirm that your H2 fans are off?
Negative, Karl. They're on. Sorry about that.
Okay. We'd like to have them off, Al.
Okay, they're off.
And, they've just been deploying the TV camera on the lunar surface, and we had some of our first looks at Hadley Delta and St. George, and what do you know, it looks just like all the pictures they've been drawing for us.
Hey, Super. It sure looks the same from up here.
Endeavour, 15. Could we please have Optics Zero.
Roger. Optics Zero.
And we've got 10 seconds for changing Image Motion on the Mapping Camera, Al.
Rog.
Al, there's no rush on it, but I'm waiting for your cue before I send up Flight Plan update.
Okay, Karl. I'll be ready in a minute.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Rover has just hit the ground. You don't see it down below you, do you?
I'm not quite there yet, Karl, but I'll look when I go over.
Roger.
Endeavour, we'd like to have Pan Camera Power, Off.
Okay, I'll turn it off now.
Thank you.
Endeavour, the first part of that Flight Plan update is to delete the Gamma - Gamma-ray boom deploy at 120:33. We want to be sure to get that one. Delete "Gamma-ray boom, deploy."
Okay, Karl. I'll delete it.
Okay, Karl. Looks like I'm set for business for the day now. And, go ahead with your Flight Plan update.
Okay, Al. First of all, on the Gamma-ray boom, the reason for that, is the fact that we're getting a little gain change every time that we deploy and retract it. It's not serious, but we'd like to sort of leave it as it is until we study the problem a little longer. You've already deleted the extension at 120:33. We also, then, will delete the retraction at 121:27.
Okay. 121:27. Rog.
And while you're on that page, the Mapping Camera photo...
Roger. And while you're on that page, the Mapping Camera photo PAD is as follows. Start, 121:39:34; 122:32:43. Would you like to read that back?
Okay. 121:39:34, and T-stop is 122:32:43.
That's correct. And just on the same page again. The attitude - the attitude there at 121:37, instead of reading a roll angle of "000," should be "142". That's for the P20 option 5.
Okay, understand. Roll angle of 142.
That's correct. The next correction is all the way up at 125 hours and 44 minutes.
Okay, go ahead.
And, this is one of those general things. On reporting the Delta-T, it should be from switch on to talkback gray.
Okay.
And, we have exactly the same thing at 129 hours and 20 minutes.
What was that again? What time was that?
At 129:20, the same thing, the switch - the Delta-T that you read back to us is switch on to talkback gray. And really, I suppose, we should make this a generality - that we don't have to put it in the Flight Plan every time.
Rog. I'd agree to that.
Incidentally, I have a question in that connection - says verify that times previous to 118 hours were from switch on, beginning time. Do you recollect that?
Karl, the way we time it onboard here, is you have to hit the switch, and then look at the mission timer. Now, the - the Gamma-ray is taking about 6 seconds to go from switch on to barber pole, the Mass Spec. was going on immediately to barber pole, so it didn't make any difference in the case of the Mass Spec. And in the Gamma-ray, the most it could be off is 6 seconds.
Right. And, - I guess on the Gamma-ray when you reported the time - do you recall which it was that you were giving us, switch on or talkback barber pole?
Talkback barber pole.
Okay, fine. That's the way the instructions were, originally.
We have a comm change. It's simply an error in our Flight Plan at 128:10.
And, at 128...
Okay, go ahead.
at 128:10, the first step in that configuration is "VHF AM A, Simplex." The second step is to change "VHF AM B," delete "Duplex," and make that "Off."
Okay. Understand you want Simplex A in, B - and B, Off.
That's correct, and at 149 hours and 37 minutes, we do the same thing.
Okay, gotcha.
And at 149:37, we also want to add "mode Vox."
Okay. Understand, "mode Vox."
Roger. And, I think the last item to come up is again the comm change at 169 hours and 20 minutes - that we put "A, Simplex" and "B, Off."
Okay, Roger. Got those.
Okay. That takes care of our current Flight Plan updates.
Rog.
Incidentally, Al, we'd like to have the Gamma-ray Gin - Gain Step go through its usual procedures here, even though we don't have the boom extended.
Okay, Karl.
Al, we'd like to have the Gamma-ray Gain Step back to the center position, please.
Endeavour, this is Houston. The down-link doesn't seem to be coming through very good; could you give me a comm check?
Hello, Houston; Endeavour. How do you read?
Roger. That's loud and clear, thank you.
Okay. I'm back on Vox now, Karl.
Okay, good.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Surface activities are coming along swimmingly at the present time. The - the rover has already been driven - made one circle around the LM so far, and they're about ready to take off on traverse number 1.
Oh, very good. Got the rover going, huh?
Roger...
good
That's good news. And a time reminder here. Over at 21:03 is the time to configure the DSE, as you go around the corner.
Okay, Karl. 21:03.
Al, this is Houston. As spacecraft Endeavour swings majestically around the eastern limb of the Moon, all systems are Go.
Hey, I'm suppose to say that.
Oh, okay.
See you on the other side, Karl.
Righto, see you there.
Hello, Houston; 15 - Endeavour.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
I read you loud and clear.
Endeavour, this is Houston, how do you read? And, we seem to have a small comm problem. Please stand by.
Roger, Houston. Endeavour standing by, and I'm reading you 5 square.
Houston, Endeavour is standing by. I'm reading you 5 square.
Roger. And, I'm reading you loud and clear, with a good bit of noise over the top of you.
Rog.
Endeavour, this is Houston. We'd like you to go ahead and try acquisition of the High Gain Antenna with the angles in the Flight Plan.
Roger, Houston. Stand by for one minute.
Endeavour, this is Houston. The information we have on your attitude indicates that you're a little bit off for those forward obliques. And, we'd like to see your Noun 78 if possible.
Okay. They were as per Flight Plan. In fact, Karl, I wanted to mention that to you. When I loaded Noun 78 with plus 126.30 and plus 045.77, the computer came up with an angle, or an attitude of 149, 089, and 344.
We copy.
Guess you better run that one through the mill down there again.
We're chewing on it.
Al, you may be interested to know that the Rover has crossed quite a bit of territory, now. And, they're on the edge of the rille, having a good look into it.
Very good. Things seems to be working okay.
Roger. They'll be at Elbow corn - Crater in just a couple of minutes.
Endeavour, you can give us Auto on the High Gain. And, Al, Vance is sitting beside me here. He's been downstairs talking to the PIs about the Pan Camera, and has some good words for you.
Okay. Go ahead, Vance.
Hey, morning, Al. Hey, first of all, Izzy said to tell you that your...
Good morning, Vance. Hey, I'm - I'm looking at our favorite crater right now.
Is that right? It couldn't be King Crater?
Yes, sir. I'm right over Proclus, now. Proclus.
Okay. Very good. Hey. Izzy has a message for you.
Very good. How's Izzy?
He's good. He says to tell you that you make a dandy spectrographer - for X-rays, that is. He's getting a lot of data in. I guess, actually, a little more activity that they expected, and they seemed real pleased about that.
That's good. That ought to keep Pete and Jack busy.
Getting into the Pan Camera. I don't know how much has been explained to you. It's - it's taking pictures - about 80 percent of them are good. And, the problem's in the V-over-H sensor, which I'll try to explain here, briefly. The V over H sensor is drifting, which means that, occasionally, it drifts down to the - to the place where it thinks that - you're out of the 45- to 80-mile limit. Whenever it does that, why, it - the camera is commanded back to a nominal 60 setting. As it turns out, it drifts enough that it - it's out of this band most of the time. And that's actually good because you're at 60 miles, so it's - it's going back to the 60-mile limit, probably to give you 80 percent of the time good pictures. The fault - we're not quite sure where it is; people are working on that. It's probably either in the sensor or upstream just a little ways in the electronics.
Rog, Vance. Understand.
And, other than that, Al, I haven't got much to report. The data seems to be coming in on all the experiments, and it's looking pretty good.
Yeah, I noticed just - some - some problems with getting the booms in and out, Vance; but, outside of that, everything seems to be okay. The Mapping Camera is taking about four and a half minutes to retract now. And, I had a little trouble getting the Mass Spec. in the last time, and I ran it out and in a couple of times, before it finally came all the way in.
Rog. Auto on High Gain.
Rog, Auto.
And, Al. The next time you extend and retract the boom, they'd like a - a hack on it - and on the Mapping Camera, too, because, - stand by. I'm sorry, they'd like hack - a time hack when you start extending the Mapping Camera and when it gets out, because they're looking at the current signatures and that sort of thing on it.
Okay. They want to help me keep time, do they?
We're just looking at the real time electrical signatures, when this - this thing is working - extending and retracting, Al. And, we'd like to have a hack so we will know when you - when we can start looking.
Okay, I understand then. You - you're watching the voltage levels or power levels in the motor that drives the extend - release.
That's affirmative.
Okay.
Okay. Back to Karl.
Okay, Vance.
Houston, Endeavour.
Endeavour, go ahead.
Okay, Karl. This may be the wrong attitude for we want, but it's such good viewing attitude that - let me make a couple observations while we're here.
Great. We're listening.
Okay. I'm right directly over Littrow at the present time. And, I can see all the way around - to the Apennine front - encompassing all of Serenitatis between here and there - except to the north over by Posidonius. So, I got a very good view of Sulpicius Gallus - and that sort of extends off my 10, 11, to 12 o'clock position. And the observation I wanted to make, in particular, was - the - the distinct way that the - that the rilles do follow - the old mare basin. And, the fact that the second color band that we discussed in Littrow - seems to be continuous right on across the - the basin into Tranquillitatis and on around - almost a shelf - a continental shelf - appearance - on into the Sulpicius Gallus. And, that seems to be that second color band that we noticed in Littrow. There is a darker color - coloring - in the uplands in Littrow and closer to the - to the front or closer to the basin of - of Scarp. But the second band seems to go all the way around Sulpicius Gallus. And, then - as you follow Sulpicius Gallus on around a little bit more to the west, that color banding is still there. I can see a distinct boundary between it and the - and the Serenitatis basin itself - inner basin - but it turned into a little more brownish color from the grey color that we saw before.
Roger, Al. You're coming through loud and clear.
Houston, Endeavour. Karl, I've got Hadley Rille in sight now in front. Have a very commanding view of the whole countryside.
Beautiful. Any chance of spotting Rover tracks down there, do you think?
Well, I got the binocular out and I'll let you know.
Al, while you're getting a beautiful view from up above, we just got a - some beautiful pan shots of Hadley's Rille and saw all sorts of blocks and bedrock sticking out of the rim of it.
Roger, Karl. I can vouch for the rocks and the blocks in the bedrock in the rille. I can see it from here with a binocular. I didn't have much luck picking up the Rover. I think I got a - I think I got a look at the - at the LM again through the binocular - but I wasn't real sure.
Very good.
You must be just about over the area south of Archimedes, there, with all those sinuous and - and linear rilles. That's pretty choppy country, isn't it?
Yeah, that's affirmative. And that's right where I'm at now, just south of Archimedes and this - hummocky, hilly terrain south of Archimedes is, in fact, quite full of - of rilles, although they're very subdued rilles. They - they don't have much definition to them, even in this low Sun angle. But, they're combinations of linear rilles, which seem to run northwest, southeast and sinuous rilles, which have no particular direction.
Right down the rille. Any - any sort of blankets around these craters? Does it look like volcanic chain there coming out of the rille?
Well, it certainly looks like a volcanic chain. Let me check and see if I can see any rims to them.
No, I don't see any rim - rim deposits associated with them. In fact, the craters that I'm looking at are irregular in shape, elongate in direction of the rille, and they look distinctly like collapsed features in a lava tube.
Very interesting.
They didn't seem to have any particular shape except that they were elongate in the direction of the rille and I didn't notice any particular - any build up around the - the mountain. In fact, in this particular Sun angle, which is rather low, I didn't really see much elevation around them. So, I assume that they're depressional, kind of they're collapsed features, rather than build up features of positive relief.
Roger.
Okay, Al. The Mapping Camera comes off in about 30 seconds.
Okay, Karl.
Al, whenever you're ready, I've got a couple of photo PADs for you.
Okay, Karl. I've got all the camera setups for the solar corona. And they're all checked out and ready to go, so I'll stand by for your PAD.
Beautiful. Over on the next page at 123 hours and 16 minutes, solar corona. The time is 123:16:50. And down there at 123:50, the UV photo PAD, 123:49:49.
Okay, Karl. Understand. The solar corona PAD is 123:16:50, and the UV is 123:49:49.
That's correct.
Houston, Endeavour.
Endeavour, go ahead.
Roger. If you're ready down there, I'll go ahead and retract the Mapping Camera now, if you want to watch the data.
Stand by a second.
Okay; I'm waiting.
Okay. You're Go to retract the Mapping Camera, and give it the mark.
Okay. On my mark.
Mark.
Okay, Houston...
Mark.
Talkback is gray.
Al, this is Houston. I hate to start bothering you right when business is getting heavy here, but we find that waste water is accumulating faster than we'd anticipated, and in order to avoid a waste water dump before we planned it, we'd like to have you fill up a water bag. Looking at your - looking at your current schedule, we recommend you start that right away and get it done.
Roger, Houston.
And, Al, that is on page C/2-28, for waste water.
Rog, Karl. Thank you.
They say it will take about 8 minutes to fill a bag.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Okay, Karl. Say again the page number, please.
The page number is C/2-28, and the bag is down in the - in the L-shaped bag, they tell me.
Rog. I've got the bag out.
And before you go around the corner, I should tell you that the configure DSE should be done at 123:10.
And reminder that that is a low bit rate command this time.
Roger.
Okay, Al. We have one minute to LOS. All systems are looking good, and enjoy that solar corona.
Rog. Thank you.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Hello, Houston; Endeavour. Did you call?
Roger, Endeavour. We copy you. A bit noisy yet. On the second set of UV photos at T-start plus 7 minutes, a number that we have for you is 56 minutes and 49 seconds, if you haven't already computed it.
Rog.
Endeavour, we'd like to have Omni Alpha.
Rog. Omni Alpha.
And, Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Houston, Endeavour. How do you read now?
Go ahead. Endeavour.
We're reading you loud and clear.
Okay, Karl. Okay, In between taking pictures here, I've been trying to collect this stuff for the waste water dump or for the waste water collection. I got the bag out, but I'm having trouble finding that female QD. Do you know where it is?
Standby. And, in the meantime, we'd like to verify that in Noun 79, we got 5 degrees.
That's affirmative.
Thank you.
Omni Bravo on the way to High Gain.
Rog. Omni Bravo.
And, Al, I have the solar corona start time any time you're able to copy.
Okay, go ahead.
Go ahead with the T-start time.
Roger. T-start is 124:32:22.
124:32:22.
That's correct.
Al, you may be interested to know that the fellows on the surface have completed a very successful EVA-1 and are back at the LM at the present time.
Very good. EVA-1's finished, huh?
Except for the ALSEP part of it.
Al, the best information we have on that female QD fitting is that it would be in the waste management system backup bag in A-8.
Okay. I'll look some more.
Al, we seem to be at the right attitude and we could bring up the High Gain if you would give us a Pitch, minus 45; and Yaw, 208.
Okay. Minus 45 and 208.
Al, this is Houston. About that - filling up the water bag. Unless you're underway with it already, our basic priority here is to go ahead and get configured for the solar-corona shots; and you can forget the water unless you're already into it.
Roger. I've got everything, I think right now, except I still can't find the female QD.
Okay. I would say let's worry about that later. And the word is that we'll just go ahead with the normal dump on the backside as it's scheduled in the Flight Plan.
Okay. That sounds good to me.
Al, is there any useful comment on the condition of window 5?
I don't think so, Karl, other than the fact that it looks very clear. There aren't - it's not smudged or anything right now.
Very good.
In fact, window - window 5 is in - certainly in better shape than window 1.
I see.
There are a bunch of little specks or spots all over the outside of it. It looks like dust that's collected there. Window 5 is almost clear.
I see. The UV people are lucky then. Very good.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Okay. Just went over the landing site and - grabbed the binocular to take a look and - saw a glint of light off the LM again and it's the same location that I called out before.
Beautiful.
Al, the solar corona photography is - should start in about one minute.
Rog, Karl. Right with you. Count down 45 seconds.
Roger.
Incidentally, you could probably call it upon your DSKY. I'm counting down in P30.
Okay.
Might try it anyway.
Roger. There - we see it going.
Al, let me have the High Gain Antenna, Auto.
Rog; Auto. And I'm maneuvering from the next one.
Roger.
Endeavour, we'd like to have an Omni Delta.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Ah, ha!
Hello, Houston; Endeavour. How do you read?
Hello, Houston; Endeavour.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Okay, Houston. Looks like we're just going over the hill here. Just wanted you to know it looks like my mission timer on the main panel is shot.
Roger, Al. We read and we would like to have Command Reset and Low Bit Rate.
Rog. Command Reset and Low Bit Rate.
Probably...
The timer's - it - the mission timer stopped at 124:47:37.
Roger. This is the...
I've reset it for 124:59.
This is the one on panel 1, is it? Or - the mission timer, huh?
That's affirm.
Is that - Is that DET in a...
That's right.
Roger.
No. The DET is over on the left side.
Roger. You mean the main mission timer over on panel two then.
That's affirm. Mission timer on panel two.
Got you.
All systems are looking good, Al. See you on the other side.
15, this is Houston. We'd like to have you go Wide Beam on the High Gain Antenna, and then to Narrow.
Okay, Houston. This is Endeavour. Going Wide Beam, going back to Narrow.
Roger.
That's sounding better, Al. How are things going up there?
Ah, going okay, Karl. Looks like I've caught up a little bit. Got all the dumps out of the way, and got the libration photography. Looks like I'm going to be handicapped a little bit because of the mission timer, but we'll press on.
All right. Our understanding on the mission timer is, that even though you tried to reset it, it still refused to count up. Is that correct?
That's correct. And I thought what I'd do now is reset to zero and start.
Roger. And for future reference, we'd like...
It counts from zero, Karl. I...
Roger - you say it is counting, but it had - it had - to start from zero to start counting again?
Yeah. Well, let me pick a random number and see if it'll count from there. I just tried to set it to the correct times...
Okay, Houston; Endeavour. Looks like we must have just run across a little funny there, Karl, because it started okay now and is running.
Roger. Do you have a time source, or would you like a hack down here to get it started again, on the right number?
I used the CMC time.
Roger.
And now for a future reference, we'd like to know whether you found the quick disconnect?
Negative.
We copy.
Al, they want me to ask you once more about - tell - tell you once more where - where the location was. The waste management bag in A-8, but I think you know that already. Incidentally, it's a rather short thing, 2 or 3 inches long. It's got a thread on one end and a quick - quick disconnect on the other.
Yeah, Karl, that's exactly what I was looking for. And, problem is, the waste - the small waste management bag is not in A-8 right now. I'm going to have to - have to look around. Maybe Dave or Jim got it out on the way out. I'll look around and see if I can find it.
Okay, fine.
I just haven't had - haven't had the free minutes since they came up to do that.
Right. And there's no reason now to be troubled by it at all. We were just asking that for future reference. Sounds like it's only a matter of it being dis - misplaced somewhere, so let's forget it.
Endeavour, we'd like to have High Gain Antenna, Auto.
Okay, Houston; Endeavour. You've got High Gain, Auto, and I've got the Pan Camera Power, On.
Very good. Any time - any time on this rev, we'd like to have an update on the magazines. And in the meantime, let me give you a few good words on the surface activity. The boys have spent the last hour deploying the ALSEP, and I think all of the experiments got out, except we had some trouble, as anticipated, with the - with the drill. Dick Gordon is down here saying "I told you so." The - Dave was in the process of making - for the world discus record, when he just about fell flat on his face he threw it so hard. That was - that was the high spot of the whole ALSEP deployment procedure.
How far did he get it?
Oh, I suppose we'll claim something like 2 or 3 kilometers. Who knows for sure.. But the gyrations he went through to keep his footing after that big heave...
Better than golf balls, even.
Yeah, yeah. It was really funny to see him scrambling to keep his footing though after he swung around.
Okay, Al. We're ready to have the Pan Camera Power, Off.
Endeavour, this is Houston. You can turn Pan Camera Power, Off, now.
Roger, Houston. Got it off.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Okay, Karl. Just for your information, I finally dug all the way through A-8 and got a hold of the quick disconnect. And it's - it's as I expected it. But, it was there, and we're squared away now.
Very good. That makes people feel better down here. We did stow it, after all.
Yeah, well, one of my problems is that I've got the center couch underneath the right-hand couch, and I've also got the L-shaped bag and a few other things stowed on top of A-8. So, it's not quite so easy to get to.
Right-o. We understand.
Al, the boys are in the LM, and they're repressurizing the cabin now.
Roger, Karl. Sounds like they had a pretty good day.
Yes, sir. They had a terrific day. I think they're going to sleep well tonight.
Yeah. I wouldn't be surprised.
Endeavour, this is Houston. You getting a good look at Littrow up there?
Yes, sir. Just went by Littrow. And right over Serenitatis now, coming up on the landing site.
Very good. Hey, you been looking the Littrow for a couple of days now. Are you forming any opinions whether that dark area is lava flow or ash flow?
Well, Karl, if I had to give you the opinion right now, I'd say it was all some - some kind of ash. I don't - I'm not sure it's flow. But it certainly is - it looks like a deposit over the entire surface. You can see it - mostly in the upland areas and down in the mare areas and mostly in - in valleys - in depressions, this stuff seems to have collected almost like it was - there was some mass wasting down the hills making the - making the valleys darker in color and maybe a little thicker with that kind of material. But there are - there are still at least three different distinctive colorations in the Littrow area, going from dark gray to a sort of brownish color. And it was the dark gray that looked like it was an ash flow to me, and I'm not sure about intermediate. It looks more like it could have been a flow, and I can see even through the - through the monocular I can see the contact where it - there's a - it looks like a flow front between that and the mare - the normal mare coloration which is a little lighter in color.
Okay. I guess we better let you go back to work on Hadley, which is coming up any minute now.
Rog.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Al.
Okay, Karl. I'm over the Hadley area now. I've gone by it. And nothing more to report on the Hadley, except one observation that I meant to make on the last pass and didn't. I'll make it now. That is that the landmark, 15 dash 40, is readily visible, even with the naked eye. You don't need a sextant to see it.
Very good.
Does that secondary crater complex stand out in any special way that gives you some idea as to its origin?
Well, I didn't look at it from that standpoint when I was going over it before, but - I guess I'll have to take a special look at that to answer your question.
Hey, Al, how's that sunset look down below you?
Well, I can't see it from here Karl.
Any - any chance - you got light - in the Aristarchus area yet? Seeing anything down there?
Negative, Karl. I'm beyond it, and it looks like - I'm looking in the wrong direction anyway. Will say this, though. There - there - there is - seems to be a cloud that's moving along with me, I guess from that last dump. And it - drifted out. Pretty well dispersed right now, but every little particle of that cloud reflects the sunlight like a mirror.
That's a very interesting observation. You still see some of it out there now, do you?
Yeah, that's affirmative. I do, and - Now, I dimmed the lights down; and I have a pretty nice view of the Moon in Earthshine.
Ah, hah. Any chance you see Aristarchus? Are you, - maybe you're not looking that way, I guess. Are you looking down on Aristarchus by any chance?
Well, just a second, and I'll turn the lights down and let you know.
Good. That's Schröter's Valley, you know, and was once known to glow red.
Hello, Houston; Endeavour.
Did you call, Al?
Rog, Karl. I've been sitting here looking at Aristarchus, and I finally had to check the map to make sure; because it's - it's so bright in Earthshine, it's almost as bright, it seems like, as it is in sunshine. Very, very bright crater. It looks very much like Copernicus at night.
I'll be darned. Sounds real interesting.
Yeah. And I can quite clearly trace out Schröter's Valley going off toward the northwest. I can't see it. It's a little bit out of range; it's north of track, and so it's somewhat out of range for me to see.
Very good. Hey. Spence is asking me to remind you about the film magazine update if you have any time yet this rev.
Okay. I'm going to have to go back through the Flight Plan and get the numbers out. But I will do that.
Okay. I'm not sure we want you to do that at the expense of anything else here, like to P52. Hang on.
So, I'll go ahead and do the P52, Karl.
Right. We'd rather have you do the P52 if there is any either/or there.
We've got your torquing angles, Al.
Okay, Karl. Get them out in a minute.
Hey, Al. You've got a couple of people interested down here in particle clouds now. And, first of all, we'd like to have you verify that you saw particles all the way until you went into the shadow. I certainly believe you did. You were telling me about them just as you were in that position. And likewise, if you have a chance at sunrise tomorrow where you are in that same position, with the Sun illuminating you, but not the background, could you see if you - there is any remaining signs of those particles?
Okay, be glad to. Now, as far as how long I saw them; I saw them as long as the spacecraft was still in sunlight. However, I was beyond the terminator - surface terminator. And, - right now, looking out the window I don't see any of them.
Okay, fair enough. And I got some words for you on that bad attitude that we had on the oblique mapping camera photography this morning. If...
Okay.
Evidently, we - sent you up the right attitude angles, but somehow or other we had a - slightly erroneous omicron. And, the actual photograph - I think we were something like 10 or 15 degrees off attitude - were perfectly good. No problem there. But, we have gone through the Flight Plan and made sure in the future that we will have the proper omicron and everything will be right on the nose.
Okay.
Just in case you was wondering what in the heck went wrong that time. And, I have a TEI-37 any time you have time to copy it.
Okay. Just a minute.
Okay, Karl. Go ahead with the TEI-37.
Say again, Al.
Go ahead with your TEI-37 PAD.
Roger. TEI-37, SPS/G&N; 37350; plus 0.60, plus 1.01; 151:00:17.43; plus 2979.1, minus 0745.2, minus 0243.3; 180, 109, 349; the rest is NA. Ullage, 2 jets for 17 seconds - 17 seconds - and the longitude at TIG is minus 179.52. That's all.
Okay, understand. TEI-37, SPS/G&N; 37350; plus 0.60, plus 1.01; 151:00:17.43; plus 2979.1, minus 0745.2, minus 0243.3; 180, 109, 349; 2 jets, 17 seconds; longitude at TIG is minus 179.52.
That's all correct.
Al, how's your exercise machine going up there. Getting - getting all you need for the - for the big day in the future.
Right now I'm trying to figure out your film usage.
Oh, ho.
But yes, the exerciser is working fine. The rope's getting a little frayed right now.
You're really putting in all your hours on it, are you? Glad to hear that.
Got to keep in shape.
Righto.
You might also be interested to know that, at least up to this point, we've eaten every morsel of food that was allotted for us at that time.
Sounds like you're really living it up, up there. Chuck Berry says he's delighted.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Okay, got a quick rundown on the film for you. The DAC magazine, Hotel, is - has 65 percent left; and for the Hasselblad, mag Metro is - I've used 155 frames, November: used 56 frames; Romeo's used 40 frames; Sugar used 80 frames, and Nikon, I've used 16 frames. And let me reverse the first one just to make it consistent. I've used 35 percent out of magazine Hotel for the 16 millimeter. That makes it all consistent.
Very good, Al. That came through loud and clear.
Al, everybody down here is sending up bouquets to you for having done such a great job in a crowded period.
Well, thank you very much, sir.
And all the systems down here are looking in good shape as you go around the corner.
Okay, Karl. Thank you.
I think I'll get something to eat.
Endeavour. We'd like to have narrow beam, please.
Narrow beam.
Thank you.
And what's new on the west limb of the Moon?
Well, I must confess, I wasn't watching. I was eating.
Enjoy it. Looks like, looking at the Flight Plan, looks like you finally had a restful sort of eat period.
That's true, and it certainly was good. Incidentally, I did look for the - the particle cloud that was around me at sunrise, and it looked like it had diminished somewhat from the sunrise - or from the sunset terminator. But it may have been - it may have been the angle of the sunlight also.
But you definitely did see some particles yet?
Fewer particles.
Fewer particles, but still - still some were there, were they?
That's correct.
And how do you enjoy that coquina soup?
Almost as good as the parsley soup.
Wonderful. Brewed it myself.
It's better than nothing, you know?
Is that all you can say for it?
Al, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, If you'll give us Accept, we'd like to up - update your state vector.
Okay. You have it.
Roger. And we've got a comm check coming up with the LM and the - the time - the earliest time at which you've got a contact with them is 128:14:14.
Understand; 14:14.
Roger. And Bob is onboard now. So I'll be signing off and seeing you in the morning.
Okay, Karl. Go home and have a nice dinner and I'll talk to you in the morning.
Righto.
And, Al, it's your computer.
All righty. Good morning.
Evening.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Okay, Bob. I'm just coming up over Picard at the present time, and wanted to make a comment that it looks like there are - there are several ring structures inside the - the basin itself. They're all concentric, and I don't see a great deal of relief on those that look they're in the bottom of the basin. But looking at the - looking at the - scarps around the - the - the outer ring, Picard looks - looks like it's just - almost a caldera type. They look almost like - fault plains along the - along the outside. And I can see in the - in the - in the outer wall very distinct layering. For instance - the top - right at - right at the top is a very thin dark layer, and that runs all the way around. And there's a light colored layer. And then there are alternating dark and light layers all in about the same distance from the top of the crater all the way around.
Roger; copy, Al. That sounds like a pretty complete description.
And, as a matter of fact, Bob, I can make that same observation about Peirce - especially Peirce Alpha. This - I - I notice the same kind of layering and the same kind of horizontal lineaments in the - in the wall of the crater.
Beautiful. The King will be proud of you.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go.
Okay, Bob. I'm up over Proclus now and that's one of the visual targets. And a couple of comments about Proclus, which weren't too obvious from the pictures we've seen before. The - the edge or the segment of the crater, which is in the excluded zone of the ray pattern - which - the ray pattern, by the way, is very distinct even from directly - directly overhead. That little segment of the crater wall seems to be - discontinuous with the - with the rest of the crater. In other words - the - the crater, if you - if you made a circular ring - and you showed that as the crater, then - then this little chunk in that - in that quarter where the excluded zone is, lies outside of what you would describe as a circle for the crater itself. It's - it's like a little dimple in the crater itself. And I can't see anything in particular there close to the rim that would account for any shadowing - any physical shadowing of the ray pattern. But I - I can see a diagonal fault zone that runs down into that little dimple that I just described a minute ago, and runs into that dimple from the east side. I couldn't pick one out on the west side, but it's very distinct on the east side.
Beautiful.
And, in addition to that, I didn't see - I didn't see a great deal of difference in the - in the terrain or in the structure of the terrain across the excluded zone.
Got it.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead.
Okay. I'm looking right down on Littrow now, and a very interesting thing. I see the whole area around Littrow, particularly - particularly in the area of Littrow where we've noticed the darker deposits, there are a whole series of small, almost irregular shaped cones, and they have a very distinct dark mantling just around those cones. It looks like a whole field of small cinder cones down there. And they look - well, I say - I say cinder cones, because they're somewhat irregular in shape. They're not all - they're not all round - they're positive features - and they have a very dark halo, which is mostly symmetric, but not always, around them individually.
Beautiful, Al.
And, Al, you might want to be reminded at this point, we're getting towards the VHF.
Rog, Bob. Just going to give them a call. Hello, Falcon; this is Endeavour. Hello Falcon; Endeavour. Hello, Falcon; Endeavour.
Hello, Falcon; Endeavour.
Hello, Falcon; Endeavour.
Hello, Endeavour; Hadley Base.
Hello there, Falcon. How you doing?
Hey, we're doing just fine. How are you doing? How things going up there, Al?
Hey, going real fine, Dave. We - we're just doing the photography bit and doing a few visual observations. And I've taken a look at you a couple of times down there. How's it going there?
Okay. You're all broken up. You must be just coming over those mountains again.
Yeah, I am. The rille is just coming into sight now.
See if you can see any tracks down there.
Well, I looked for them before, but couldn't see 'em. All I got's the monocular.
Well, we got all the way up pretty close to - We got to St. George, got to Elbow, and got most of the things done.
Very good, very good. Understand it was a very successful EVA.
Yeah, it's pretty nice. I understand that the old SIM bay's gobbling up the data faster that the Moon can produce it.
Yeah, it appears that they're getting some pretty good stuff now.
Is everything nice and clean up there?
Sure is.
Boy, is it dirty down here!
I hope that it is.
But we're going to bring you some.
Okay.
Are you finished for the day's activity now?
Yeah, we're just climbing out of the suits right now, and buttoning them up, and getting ready to power down.
Very good. Get a good night's sleep.
You, too!
Oh. I'm living the life of Riley up here now.
Yeah, I guess there's enough room for one guy now, huh?
Very comfortably.
Don't get too spoiled, Al.
I won't, Jim; I'll save room for you.
And save us some food!
Save you some food?
Yeah.
I'm not sure there'll be any left. I have a well-stocked pantry here.
Well, Davy, I think I got you on the monocular.
Hey, that's great! Can you see the tracks?
No, I can't see any tracks, Jim, but I can see discoloration, rather circular, that looks like it's around the LM.
That's good. Maybe - maybe you can see the ALSEP.
Is it over east of you?
No, it's west about 300 feet.
No, I don't have it.
No, it's not very big. You're looking at best at something that's 2 to 3 feet.
Yeah. All I've got's the monocular.
Oh, well.
Well, have a nice time. We're going to go back to work. We'll talk to you later.
Okay; get to work, and I'll talk to you tomorrow.
Okay.
Houston, Endeavour. Mapping Camera is going to Extend now.
Copy.
And Endeavour, we'd like Auto on High Gain, please.
Roger, Houston; going Auto.
Houston, the Mapping Camera talkback is gray.
Roger; copy. Thank you.
And, Al. We have a Mapping Camera photo PAD for you, when you're ready to copy.
Roger Bob. Go ahead.
Okay. T-start; 129:26:52; T-stop; 130:26:30. And it says note: at T-start, Map Camera Image Motion, Increase; talkback barber pole, plus 4. And at - at 130:08, Mapping Camera Image Motion, Increase, talkback barber pole. Over.
Roger; understand. Mapping Camera photo PAD. T-start, 129:26:52; T-stop, 130:26:30; and at T-start you want the Image Motion Increased to barber pole, plus 4; and at 130:08, you want the Image Motion Increased to barber pole.
Roger.
And, Endeavour, Houston. We can terminate Batt B charge at this time, please.
Roger, Houston. Will do.
And, Endeavour; Houston. We're 4 minutes to LOS. A couple of comments before you go around the corner. First, the Surgeon thinks you may have loosened part of your EKG harness while you were exercising. Would like you to check that at your convenience. Second, we have a new Gamma-ray retract time on the back side of 129:20. Over.
Roger, Houston. Understand going around the back side. I'll check out my biomed harness. I may have loosened it exercising. And understand you want the gamma-ray boom retracted at 129:20.
Roger. We won't be able to see it to keep track of times, remember, Al. And, also I guess the Mass Spec. people would appreciate any more comments you can think of, next time you take a look at those particles at sunrise. Over.
Okay, Bob. Will do.
Houston, Endeavour. One last comment.
Go.
Okay. When I took the battery B off charge and checked the systems test meter for battery pressure - battery compartment pressure - and it was - systems test meter read 1.4, which is - looks like it's getting pretty close. Is that test - test meter still working all right?
Roger. Stand by. We're looking at that.
Okay.
Okay. That's - they say that's nominal. That looks good.
Okay. Thank you.
And, Al, if you read, we'd like to have your DSE configured.
Endeavour, Houston. We'd like Reacq and Narrow, if you can. And we have good biomed data.
Houston, Endeavour. How do you read?
Loud and clear.
Okay. Reading you loud and clear also.
Endeavour, we have a small series of updates here, if you're ready to copy.
Stand by one.
Okay, Houston; Endeavour. Go ahead with your updates.
Okay. First one is a change to your erasable load printed in the G&C checklist. This change has already been made in the computer. It's on page 9-4 and I'll wait for you on that one.
Okay. Stand by.
Okay, Bob. I'm here.
Okay. And on column Delta, line 05, we will change that number from "01571" to "01605." Over.
Understand. That's column Delta and octal ID 05, change to "01605."
That's verified. And all the next updates here are in the Flight Plan.
Okay.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. At - These are changes to the bistatic radar at 130:52, "P00 at pitch 177 degrees." And we're deleting the "P00 at pitch 171," at 130:54 there.
Okay. And what time do you want that. At 130:52?
That's affirm.
And at 131...
Okay.
at 131:10, we will change the Verb 49 maneuver to bistatic attitude from "067, 171, 00" to "067, 177, 00." So the Pitch changes to 177. Over.
Roger. Understand. Change the Pitch to 177.
Okay. At 131:32, we're going to change the Noun 78 values. We're going to change R2 to "plus 067.00." That's R2.
Okay. Understand. Change R2 from "047.50" to "067.00."
Roger. And at 131:39, the "start auto pitch rate" attitude there will be the same as the Verb 49 inertial attitude updated at 131:10, which means we'll change that to - from "171" on the inertial to "177." Over.
Roger. Understand.
Okay. And I have a Camera photo PAD for you. Pan Camera. Go to T-start at 1...
Okay. Go ahead.
T-start, 130:18:05; T-stop, 130:19:16. Over.
Understand. Pan camera photo PAD T-start, 130:18:05; T-stop, 130:19:16.
Roger. And I have a TEI-37 PAD for you if you can find a copy of a PAD.
Roger. I have a TEI-37 PAD. Is there any change?
Roger. Yes, there is a change.
Okay, Go ahead.
Roger. TEI-37, SPS/G&N; 37350; plus 0.60, plus 1.01; at Noun 33, 150:59:30.08; Noun 81, plus 2979.1, minus 0748.6, minus 0219.6; 180, 109, 349; and the rest of the PAD is unchanged. Ullage, 2 jet for 17 seconds; and other comments - longitude at TIG will be minus 179.22. Over.
Roger. Understand TEI-37 PAD, SPS/G&N; 37350; plus 0.60, plus 1.01; 150:59:30.08; plus 2979.1, minus 0748.6; minus 0219.6; 180, 109, 349; two jet, 17 seconds, and longitude TIG is minus 179.22.
Roger. Readback correct; and that's the end of the updates for the moment.
All righty.
And, Endeavour; we'd like to get the callout which was at 129:50 for the Gamma-ray Gain Step to Shield, Off. Over.
Roger; understand.
And, we, - you can get that most anytime soon. For 10 minutes; it is not critical yet, I guess, as far as the start time is concerned.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Okay, the Delta-T on the Gamma-ray boom retract was 3 plus 07.
Copy. Thank you.
And, Endeavour; Houston. When you have a moment, High Gain in Auto now.
Okay. Going Auto. And do you want the onboard read-outs now, Bob?
Yes. We'll take them.
Okay. Crew status. Better than most, I guess. PRD was 23135. Battery C, 37; Pyro Bat A. 37; Pyro Bat B, 37; RCS in order, 71, 69, 70, 71.
Okay. We copy all those.
Okay; and cryo fans have been cycled.
Copy.
Endeavour, Houston.
Houston, Endeavour. Go ahead.
Roger. And the people down here are suggesting that on your presleep checklist, we omit the 'Direct O2 to On' for the rest of your solo flight because you aren't just breathing down the cabin that much, and I guess it will save a little bit of oxygen and eliminate the possibility of cracking a relief valve there. So we'll delete that section from your...
Okay, Bob, that sounds good. I didn't notice. Yes, okay, I noticed last night I set it at 5.7, or it was very close to 6, and it didn't drop a bit during the day today.
Roger. I guess that's what we're noticing too.
Incidentally, just going over the Littrow area again. I described the - what looked like - some, at least, fumarolic vents. They look like small cinder cones to me. And every time I look at them, they - that firms up my impression more and more that they're vol - volcanic cinder cones. Also, I noticed one rille, and I'd like to try and get some pictures of it here before we get too far away from Littrow on the next - maybe tomorrow. Looks very distinctly like the roof, or the - the top of the rille is collapsed in some places, and the rille is exposed in other places.
Roger. It'll make a few theorists pretty happy about that.
Yes, yes; it might - it might confirm some things about rilles. It's - its a little difficult to see whether it is in fact a collapsed feature in some of the - in those parts of the rille, or whether it's something else that I'm seeing. But it looks very much like portions of - the - the rille have a collapsed roof. And, in fact, the one I was looking at, works it's way into what looks like one of the - one of the ridges. It was very ridgy to the - to the north and then turned into a rille as it went south.
Roger. Copy. Keep talking like that, and we might end up going to Littrow sometime.
Yes.
And, Al, already you've generated enough interest for people to ask if it's underneath you, so that the Mapping Camera might be getting it now.
Yes. The Mapping Camera should be getting it.
Beautiful.
I suspect the - the Mapping Camera might not have enough detail to pick it up as well as we'd like. Although, I don't know, I can see it with the 10 power binocular without any trouble.
Copy. And, just so we don't forget it, we got about 3 minutes to T-start for the Pan Camera.
Roger. Right with you. Countdown 2:50 now.
Right on.
Okay, Houston. That does the Pan Camera pass over Hadley Rille, and you can let me know when the lens is tucked in.
Roger.
Go ahead.
And, Al, we verify the lens is tucked. You can turn the power off.
All righty; thank you, sir.
And, Al, while you're getting ready for the Mapping Camera, if you'll let us, we'll get a E-memory dump.
Okay, Bob. Stand by one.
Roger.
And, Al, we're noticing the Laser, I guess - Vance told you earlier, it's kind of going down hill a little bit, and we'd like to turn it off at this time. It's working about 50 percent right now, so we'd like to turn it off right now.
Roger, Bob. Laser is coming off. And the Mass Spec. boom is coming out.
Copy.
Houston, Endeavour.
Say again, Endeavour.
Okay, Bob. I've got some good accurate times for you on the boom extensions.
Okay.
Okay. It's from switch actuation to - when the barber pole goes gray. And the Delta-T for the mass spec was 2 minutes, 39 seconds - 2 plus 39, and the Delta-T for the Gamma-ray was 2 plus 41; 2 plus 41.
Copy, thank you.
Roger.
Roger. We're looking at your torquing angles and you're Go.
Roger.
Endeavour, Houston. Over.
Houston, Endeavour. Go ahead.
Roger. One small change to your Flight Plan. Reminder of the change that we made yesterday, as well. At 133:17, remember the Mass Spec. peoples now want Discriminator and Multiplier to Low. You remember that?
Roger, Bob. I've got it. It's showing in Low at 133:17.
Roger. Just a reminder. And another reminder: when you get ready to go to sleep, you can go to Reacquire and Narrow with plus 25 and 185, and then we won't disturb you when you come AOS on the pass after next, when you should be - already asleep.
Roger. Understand; High Gain angles are plus 25 and 185.
Roger. I think they're in your checklist too, Al.
They could be, Bob. I looked for them last night and couldn't find them.
I figured as much.
Roger. And incidentally, the Delta-T on the Mapping Camera retract was 3 plus 15.
Copy.
And Endeavour as you go around the hill, good night.
Okay, Bobby. Goodnight.
Hello, Endeavour; this is Houston. Over.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Over.
Hello, Endeavour. Endeavour, this is Houston. Over.
Hello, Endeavour. This is Houston in the blind. If you read, go Reacq and Narrow at angles of Pitch, plus 25; and Yaw, 185. That's Pitch, plus 25; and Yaw, 185. Over.
Hello, Houston; this is Endeavour. Go ahead.
Okay, Al, this is Houston. You're loud and clear now. I would like to suggest going to the presleep configuration before you bed down for the night there on the comm.
Yeah, Rog. Will do, Gordo.
Endeavour, Houston. Over.
Yeah, go ahead, Gordo.
Okay. If you've gone through the presleep checklist, we noticed a couple of things. The optics power should go off, and also - in your DAP load, go to all ones in R-1. And, we'd like a call when you finally turn in and turn the voice mode off, just before you do that, please. Over.
Yeah. Okay, Gordo. Haven't been through the checklist yet.
Okay.
Endeavour, Houston. No need to acknowledge, but we need the Mass Spec. Discriminator to Low as per an earlier update. Over.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead.
Gordo, was that Mass Spec, Discriminator, Low or Multiplier, Low? I got an update about 5 hours ago. It was - they said Multiplier, Low.
Okay. I guess the update was on Discriminator. Actually, they're both supposed to be low, Multiplier and Discriminator, Al.
Okay. Understand you want them both Low.
That's affirmative.
