Honeysuckle Comm Tech, Houston Comm Tech. Net 1, voice check.
This is Honeysuckle Net 1. Loud and clear.
Roger. Loud and clear also, Honeysuckle.
Alfredo, it's looking like wake-up time.
Good morning, Al. They tell me you're sleeping very well right now; I'm sorry to wake you up.
Good morning, Al. On the planet Earth, August the first is creeping in upon us, and your bleary eyed Flight - CapCom down here is standing by at your service.
Hello, Houston. Endeavour.
Hello, Endeavour. Good morning. How are you doing?
Well, other than being rudely awakened, I'm doing fine, Karl.
Hey, I'm sorry that I have to do that, Al. Sounded like you were sleeping good. Hey, as the first step, can you give us High Gain, Auto, and give us Accept for a state vector?
Okay, Karl. You've got them both.
Thank you. And we've got about ten minutes 'til LOS at the present time. When you've got a pencil and a paper, I'll give you a short Flight Plan update and a camera PAD.
Okay, Karl. Go ahead. I'm ready to copy.
Okay. On the Flight Plan update at 141:03, they simply want you to add the report on the Gamma-ray and Mass Spec boom Delta-T's. And at 141:04 there is a "Laser Altimeter, On," which should be transferred down to 141:15. Those numbers come through okay?
Rog, Karl. I got you. At 141:03 you want me to report the Delta-T's on the retract for the booms; and move the "Laser Altimeter, On" to 141:15.
Roger. And, over at 141:55, I guess we're having a look at photo target 25, and there's a friendly little note that goes with this. It says to be performed only if the CMP feels it won't interfere with his eat period. So, this is your choice. Do you want some numbers?
Roger. Let me have them.
Okay. Camera configuration. CM/EL/250/CEX, f/5.6, 1/250, infinity; 15 frames. And at 142:04, the actual execute: photo target 25; A12, A13-P25. And, it says CM with window 3, with the same - with the same camera configuration: f/5.6, 1/250th at infinity; and 15 frames at 10 second intervals. Right, and this is magazine Q, pardon me. So much for the short Flight Plan update. Did the photo target 25 stuff come through okay?
I think I got most of it. But let me read it back to you just in case. Okay, at 141:55, that would be: set up cameras for photo target 25, at CM/EL/250/CEX, f/5.6, 1/250 at infinity, 15 frames; and then at 142:04 at A12, A13, photo target 25. CM, 3; and the settings going to be for 15 frames at 20 seconds from Mag Q.
Okay, everything's right except 15 frames at 10 second intervals - one zero.
Ah, so. Okay, 15 frames at 10 seconds.
That's right. And the computer is yours.
Okay.
Okay. The only other important thing on this front side pass is to get up the camera PAD to you. That's about the same page there...
All right, go ahead.
okay. The Mapping Camera Photo PAD starts 141:17:26; 144:09:30. And right down below is the Pan Camera PAD, 141:46:11; 142:01:31. And as a part of this, just across the page there, at 141:45, we would like to move down that statement, "Mapping Camera Image Motion, Increase;" move that down to 57 - 141:57. And that's all.
Roger. Understand. The Mapping Camera photo PAD is, 141:17:26; 144:09:30. The Pan Camera photo PAD is 141:46:11; 142:01:31. And move the "Mapping Camera Image Motion Increase to talkback, barber pole" from 141:45 to 141:57.
That's excellent. I - I also have science report, which you can probably pick up on the next rev, and consumables report. And I guess we would like a status report from you. We could either do that now or early in the next rev. How do you feel about it?
Oh, I can give you the status report now, I think, Karl. Stand by one.
Okay, Karl, I guess - crew status report: Got 6 hours sleep all in one period, and a very good night's sleep, I might add; and my PR - no medication, and my PRD is 23149.
Roger. 23149.
And standing by for the consumables.
What was that comment on consumables? Would you like to copy them now?
Roger, Karl. Might as well get them now.
Okay. The time is 140 hours; RCS total is, 61; quad A, 61; 61; 59; 61; H2 tanks, 70, 70, 48; O2 tanks, 75, 78, 60.
Rog, Karl. 140:00, RCS total 61, it'd be 61; 61; 59; 61; H2 tanks, 70, 70, 48; O2 tanks, 75, 78, 60.
That's correct. We and, they say that they would like to have you do the configuring of the DSE that comes up there at 141:35. And if you can listen for another minute I've got an EECOM status if you'd like.
Roger. Go ahead. I'll be doing a P52.
Go ahead on that and the report is mostly nominal on everything. It says that the fuel cells are nominal. The spacecraft average current has been about 80 amps. Cryo purity is good, judging from the very little effect of the fuel cell purges. The battery charges all have been nominal. The cryo quantities are above the nominal Flight Plan level, and the ECS system operation has been normal. And that takes care of the EECOM report.
Well, that certainly sounds very good, Karl.
Okay, Al, we're going to have LOS in about a minute and all the systems down here look Go.
Roger, Karl.
And, Houston, if you're...
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Houston, Endeavour. Read you loud and clear.
Very good.
And, Karl, Endeavour. I've got a message for our friends this morning.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Okay. If the King is there: Mar-hah-bah al el-arde in-Endeavour ee-lay-kum sa-lam.
Beautiful. If he's not down there listening, I'll make sure it gets relayed to him, if I can remember.
Okay. And I got some gyro torquing angles for you.
We're ready to copy.
Okay. Stars used were 01 and 36; Noun 05 was plus four balls 1; Noun 93 was minus 00.004, minus 00.050, plus 00.041. They were torqued at 140:49:00.
Roger, Al. That all came through loud and clear. And you're coming up in a few minutes - in a few seconds to a Gamma-ray Gain Step operation.
Rog. And then I'll get back with you on the Delta-Ts.
Roger.
Okay. The shield is off and the Delta-Ts, the Mapping Camera extension was 3 plus 50; the Gamma-ray retracts was 3 plus 12; and unfortunately the Mass Spectrometer boom, when I go to Retract, even now, I get a barber pole. It never did go gray.
We copy, and we're sorry to hear that.
Although, I'm not so sure but what part of our problem is not in the talkback indicator itself. After 3 - well, 3 to 4 minutes, I was watching the talkback and saw no change, so I went to Extend and noticed that the talkback jumped about half position in the window. So apparently what's happening is that the talkback is - is not triggering before gray. It's going about half way. There's about a half a barber pole in the window and, if I go to Extension, I get full barber pole. So that may indicate that it's just a talkback problem.
Roger. We copy.
I don't know whether you understand all that or not. But...
I'm not sure...
I sort of feel like maybe there's a talkback problem.
Right. Incidentally, how many times did you cycle the switch on the deploy/retract.
Oh, I guess I probably cycled it 3 or 4 times.
Okay. I guess the reason I asked is I think we have a suspicion there that we have the - that cable not coiling correctly and recycling may - feed the coils correctly and solve the problem.
Okay. I'll go ahead and deploy and retract it. I'll cycle it a - a few times here and see if I can get to come in.
Endeavour, a time hack is coming up very shortly on the Pan Camera.
Rog.
Okay. We have 30 seconds before Pan Camera Mode goes to Operate.
Rog, Karl. Right with you.
Al, we'd like to have High Gain Antenna, Auto, now.
Auto.
Al, if you're not too busy now, I could send you up a science report. And I can cue you on that Gamma-ray Gain Step.
Okay. Go ahead.
Righto. Here we go. On X-ray Spectrometer, words by Izzy Adler say the general health of the X-ray experiment is excellent and a large amount of useful data is being received.
Okay, Karl, go ahead. It's on.
Okay. One more comment on the Gamma-ray Spectrometer. It says that regional differences have been observed in the quick look data, but details will require computer analysis for confirmation. So they're beginning to see some point-to-point differences there also.
Roger, Karl. We can check that out, and - if we don't see anything there, we can check it out during the EVA.
Very good. Good idea. On the...
And, the Mass Spectrometer is now fully retracted. Talkback is gray.
Wonderful. Just recycling it a couple of times, and it finally came in; is that what happened?
Well, it took - I guess probably a half a dozen re - just recycles, jogging it out, then pulling it back in again and that may be - that may be the problem. Maybe that cable is kinking some way or other.
Okay. Real glad to hear you got that gray talkback.
Incidentally, the boys on the surface just about took a shower bath this morning. They had a small water leak in the gun there that let loose a couple of gallons of water. It was a major perturbation, although they've got it cleaned up pretty well. And they're running about an hour, to an hour and a half behind their time line on the second EVA. They haven't got out yet.
Roger. Understand.
Okay, Al. We have about 10 seconds before we give an Image Motion Increase for the Mapping Camera.
Endeavour, this is Houston. You have 30 seconds until Pan Camera Mode goes to Standby.
Rog, Karl. Right with you.
Al, we're still waiting for a cue on the lens stow, and in the meantime, photo target 25 is roaring down on us.
Rog, got it in sight.
Endeavour, Houston. We can go Pan Camera Power, Off.
Roger. Power Off.
Endeavour, this is Houston. When you get the camera stowed, I have one more small item, and then we'll give you some time to get out some food.
Okay, it's stowed. Go ahead.
Okay, Al - we're finding out that the - tight deadband in P20 is using a little more RCS propellant than we'd anticipated. Nothing's critical yet, but we would like to take - some preventive measures here. And we suggest that you go into the DAP - and load in a CSM weight of 30000, thirty thousand. And before you erase the current LM weight record it the current CSM weight, record it for future use. We think that'll cut down the thruster firing a bit.
Okay, understand. Rog. You want me to go back and reload the DAP with a CSM weight of 30,000 and record the current weight that's in there for future use.
That's correct.
Endeavour, a news bulletin from the surface says that they are now depressing the cabin; and there is no need for you to acknowledge. Keep eating.
Roger, Houston. Understand that, and - one point from here, Karl, - I'm over the spot in Imbrium, I think close to where you and Whitaker drew some, or figured out, some lava flows coming out of where the wrinkle ridge is, and at this low Sun angle, I can very clearly see some lava flows coming out of what appears to be a ridge, extending in both directions from the ridge. And I wasn't set up in time to take a picture of it, but it might be interesting on the next pass if we could get a - if we could get a PAD to take a picture of that.
Very interesting. Which window are you looking out?
I'm looking out window 3.
Window 3; that sounds like it's down to the south of you, then.
Just slightly north of groundtrack.
Very good.
That's right. Just down in the south, just a little.
Thank you. Sounds like an interesting observation, and I'm sure the guys down below will be sending you up more work to do as a result. Be careful there, now.
As I look at the map, Al, it looks to me like you're going smack over Tsiolkovsky every rev now. How is it looking to you?
That's just about right, Karl. Coming right over the middle of it.
That must be a beautiful sight. Hey, I was sort of fascinated by the fact that, on your first couple of revs, you noted that you could really see the peaks sticking up - the central peak before you could see the rim. Is that really true?
Well, that's not really true, because - it's - it's so hilly and - and ridgy down in that particular area that you just don't see the rim. And Tsiolkovsky is big enough so that you do get some, at least optical, impressions of the central peak being higher than the ridges. But I think it's just because the - the basin is - is big enough, is far enough across, that you're - as you're looking from one rim to the other, the curvature kinda gets to you and - and makes the central peak appear higher than it is. But it is a very, very high central peak; it's a - it's a very large mass.
Hey, that would be great to get pictures of that. I don't know when you were scheduled to look at that - that landslide on the northwest corner of it, but are you seeing anything of that area?
Absolutely, I look at it every time I go by and there's just - there's no question in my mind at all that it is a - that it is a - rock avalanche. It - it does have some interesting qualities about it, though. And it's a little bit hard for me to decipher right now, but it seems like the density of crater impacts in that slide is - is greater than in the surrounding terrain, even though the slide had to be emplaced on top of the surrounding terrain. Maybe it's just that the craters are - are fresher in that - fresher looking in that particular material. But no question about the lineaments being parallel to the direction of the travel of the flow in the lobate toes and - all the - all the characteristics that I've seen of a rock avalanche.
Roger. That sounds interesting.
Guess I'd add one other comment to that. So far, I haven't been able to locate the other one.
Say again on that, Al?
So far, I haven't been able to locate Alvin.
Roger. Okay.
Al, Alvin heard that, and he feels crushed.
Well, tell him not to worry. I'm sure it's there and I'll - I've just got to get a little bit further south around the edge of the crater.
Okay. Hey, when you can get the Flight Plan and a pencil, I've got a - a few more updates to finish up on this rev.
Okay, go ahead.
Okey-doke, let's go over to 143 hours. And, at 143:09, we want to add...
Say, Houston, Endeavour. Go ahead with your up-dates, Karl.
Roger. At 143:09, we would like to add "Laser Altimeter, Off". At 143:12, in that P20 there, we would like you to do a "Verb 25" instead of a "Verb 24"; and we would like to add, in addition to your two angles there, we would like to add "Omicron plus 161.00." Did that come through?
Rog. Understand, we're going to do - Omicron - add omicron to that load of plus 161.00.
Roger. And we're going to do the same trick over on 144 hours and 26 minutes. We want add, again, to that load, we want to add "Omicron as plus 180.00."
Understand. At 144:26, you want to add a "Verb 25, Noun 78" - "Omicron plus 180.00."
That's correct. Next change is over on 146:13. And over there we have a "Laser Altimeter, Off," which had already been put off before so you can delete "Laser Altimeter, Off."
Rog. Delete "Laser Altimeter, Off."
And then, if we go over to 151 hours. At 151 hours and 10 minutes, we would like to change the Pan Camera operation there, and we would like to say "Stereo Exposure, Normal." And at 151:15, we would like to delete the "Pan Camera Exposure, Normal."
Okay, I understand. At 151:10 you want that to read "Stereo Exposure, Normal;" and at 151:15, delete that line.
That's correct, and that's the end of the update.
Okay.
Endeavour, this is Houston. They have some data on that new DAP configuration, with the new weights. I guess we're not sure we want to stick with it, and at this time we'd like you to go back to the normal DAP load with the normal weight.
Okay, Karl. Understand you want me to go back to normal DAP load and normal weight.
Roger. And, I was so busy talking, I forgot to cue you on the Gamma-ray boom. I trust you have started - you got that out yet, or did I talk you out of thinking about it.
Negative. It's out.
Very good. Thank you.
Did you record an extension time on that?
No. I didn't get that, Karl.
That's okay.
Endeavour, this is Houston. All your systems look Go as you go around the corner. And see you on the other side.
Okay, Karl. See you on the other side.
Endeavour, this is Houston, how do you read?
Hello, Houston. Endeavour reading you loud and clear.
Reading you loud and clear likewise.
Al, if you have time to listen, I have some news bulletins down here; and, somewhere in the middle, I'll break in for the High Gain Antenna, Auto.
Okay, Karl. Go ahead.
Right. This is the morning national and world news - the world being, of course, the planet Earth. President Nixon, yesterday, declared his administration is determined to revitalize the American country...
Go ahead. I missed that one; Al, say again.
That's your world right now.
That's right; that's our world.
Our world's up here right now, Karl.
I - I'll give you some news bulletins on that at the end. Things are coming along good in the EVA. Okay. President Nixon was what - he was at ceremonies dedicating a dam in Iowa, and he said the economic potential of rural areas must be developed, quote, "so that the people who live there can be first-class citizens enjoying a first-class way of life." Unquote. In the labor area, about 4,000 Houston area steel workers are expected to be off the job today in a nationwide strike against nine major steel companies. That's beginning to loom as a pretty big factor in economic world down here. Senator Mansfield said Saturday chances are good that the senate will reach an agreement to stop talking and speed up a vote on a bill to rescue Lockheed Aircraft Corporation. The President of Pakistan has accused neighboring India of continued artillery strikes across the border and said, quote, "We are very near to war with India;" a very sad note there. And Senator Edward Kennedy and Senator Edmond Muskie are tied for the top spot in the latest Democratic standings according to a Gallup Poll. I'm sure you'll be fascinated. And in the world of sport, in football, the Houston Oilers lost their first exhibition game to Los Angeles, 17 to 6. In baseball, the Astros won for a change, and beat the Expos 6 to 4; and in golf, Jack Nicklaus and Arnie Palmer shot a total of 64 to take a 4 stroke lead in the PGA National Team Championship in Ligonier, Pennsylvania. Okay, and we're ready for High Gain, Auto, Al.
Up on your planet, the latest word is that the Rover is still functioning - functioning brilliantly, and the fellows are well into EVA number 2 and just recently passed Crescent Crater and Dune Crater - well on their way to exploring the Front at Hadley Delta.
Sounds great.
Yep. Everything's going great, both in orbit and on the surface. Everybody is very pleased.
Okay, Karl. If you're through with the news, let me give you some words on Tsiolkovsky.
Great, we're listening.
Okay, I'll take the items one at a time as they come. First off, the central peak. The central peak is a - is a very large - smooth peak on the - on the south and east sides, getting blocky on the north side; and there's what appears to be some layering visible on the - on the south and west exposed scarp of the peak, dipping to the north at about 30 degrees.
You're coming through loud and clear.
The - Okay. The light material - light colored flow material - around the edges of the - of the basin - texture appear to be nothing more than just simple mass wasting off of the edges - or off the - of the rims around the basin. The rims themselves are quite - cut with the mass wasting in a - oh, I'd say an extent of about 330 degrees on the north, east, and south sides. Now, on the west side, the rim there is a very, very, large, clean scarp; and when I say clean, it goes almost from the basin floor to the - to the rim itself in one large chunk. And that scarp appears to define the limits of a couple of fault zones that go through that rim of Tsiolkovsky. It was kind - it - I couldn't trace the fault zones beyond Tsiolkovsky from the vantage point I had very well, but they're very distinct in the wall itself. And one fault zone coincides, or - occurs in the same location as the southernmost edge of what appears to be a rock glacier extending northwest into Fermi. Now, that rock glacier has all the flow banding and the lobate toes characteristic of what we consider a rock slide; however, one - one feature about that slide that I mentioned before is that it has what looks like fairly fresh crater impacts on the slide itself and seems to have more impacts - in other words, a higher density of craters than the - than the - surrounding floor of Fermi, although Fermi looks - the floor looks much older - its much smoother, more like a Cayley formation.
Roger, Al; we're copying.
Looking - Okay. Looking more to the south, I see no evidence of another rock slide to the south. The pictures might indicate - might hint at some kind of a rock slide there, but it appears that it's - that its more ejecta now. The picture doesn't clearly show the ejecta from Tsiolkovsky, but the ejecta pattern and the flow - the flow lines are - at least observable around most of Tsiolkovsky, and the ones that we see on the south and west side of Tsiolkovsky seem to be more ejecta than anything else. I couldn't see any distinct unit there that could have been a flow, such as the one in the northwest corner. And it - it appears that what lineaments there are in that particular part of the - of the ejecta are merely e - ejecta patterns.
Roger, Al.
One other comment, I guess. And that is, on the crater pair, just north of Tsiolkovsky - there - the - the smaller of the craters on the west side apparently was - was an original crater, with an impact occurring alongside it. Now, that's a - that appears like mass wasting or some kind of a rock avalanche into the westernmost crater - into the smaller of the two craters, and the - the rim of the easternmost crater - I'm sorry - reverse those directions; I'm looking at it upside down. The smaller crater is - is on the eastern side, has - has what looks like a rock slide in it. The larger crater on the west side has a fairly intact rim, being faulted in a couple of places where it crosses the rim of the crater to the west. But that rim is fairly intact. The rim that was apparently moved or obliterated by the most recent impact was the rim of the smaller crater to the west, and that's where all the rock debris is - has fallen into the crater on the west.
Very interesting.
Okay, now, we go on to Picard.
Houston, Endeavour.
Endeavour, go ahead.
Okay, Houston. Endeavour's coming up over Picard, and I thought I'd just go ahead and talk while we're going over Picard. First, talking about the color variations, Picard is a slightly different color than the rest of the mare basin. It's - I guess what I would consider Crisium - a light brownish gray. Picard, itself, is - is - is more of a brown tone, and it has a darker halo around it. I can see some of the brown - material just on the outside of the rim; and outside of that is some darker material that gradually turns into the gray of Mare Crisium. Inside Picard, I can see - well, let's see now, let's count them - 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, six distinct rings that go around the inside of Picard. And the - and the walls in Picard are very shallow. It looks like a very shallow, almost like a - a dish - kind of basin, and gently from the edges on in toward the center, and, as I say, I can count - five or six rings inside, that are all concentric with the center of the basin. And I can see some definite layering in - in the - particularly in the upper boundary of the rim.
Roger; we're - we're copying loud and clear.
And, I make the same comment about Yerkes.
Roger, Al; we copy.
Hope you could understand all that, Karl. I had to talk fast and formulate as I went.
Roger, it came through loud and clear, and I think it was quite understandable. Very good.
Okay; I'm drawing a couple of little pictures of it to show you when I get back.
Okay, Al; we have Earthshine photography coming up in about 15 minutes. I'd better give you a PAD on it, and I also have another PAD for later photography on that page - or on the following page.
Okay. Okay, Karl. Stand by one.
Okay, Houston. Go ahead with the Earthshine PADs.
Roger. Earthshine PAD at about 144 hours and 5 minutes in your Flight Plan; the number is 144:10:32.
Understand 144:10:32.
Roger; and on the next page, a Map Camera photo PAD; take it?
Go.
Start, 145:14:16; stop, 146:13:56.
The - did the Map Camera photo PAD...
Okay, I have my Mapping Camera photo PAD.
Roger.
Negative; you - you were cut out.
Oh wow! Roger. Mapping Camera photo PAD. Start, 145:14:16; stop, 146:13:56.
Understand. T-start, 145:14:16; T-stop, 146:13:56.
That's correct.
Al, we've got 30 seconds until the Mapping Camera comes off. And then, 1 minute later, we start revving up for the Earthshine photos.
Rog, Karl.
Okay, we start Earthshine photos in about 20 seconds.
Rog, Karl; understand. And, listen, obviously since I got all the lights turned out here, how about stepping me through the Earthshine photos.
Roger. Okay, we're plus 4 minutes right now in 6 seconds. 4 frames at 30 second intervals.
And, Karl, I hope these all turn out, because this is the - the area on the last rev that I commented on all the lava flows, and we're right over them now taking pictures.
Very good.
Okay, after your fourth frame, you're going to change the shutter to 1/15th of a second. And - and then take four more frames at 30 second intervals.
Okay, 1/15th.
I'm sorry; I could have been counting time for you, too. We're coming up to plus 6 minutes, which should be about the 4th frame at the old setting. We'll mark on 6 minutes.
Okay, I got it.
And I'll call out times for you now, too. We go to 1/15th of a second.
Okay, I just took one frame at 1/15th.
Excellent.
Plus 30 seconds after your first picture.
Take number 3.
Take number 4, and change shutter setting to 1/8th.
Rog; 1/8th.
Now we're going to take 10 frames at 30 second intervals. Give me a mark on your first one.
Okay.
Mark.
Time for number 2.
On.
Take 3.
Take 4.
Take number 5.
Take number 6.
Take 7.
Roger; take 7, and I just went past the spacecraft terminator.
Say again? Roger; we copy.
Okay, I just went by spacecraft terminator.
Roger; we copy.
Take 8.
Take number 9.
Take number 10. Change the shutter to 1/500th, cover the lens, and cycle one frame.
Okay; thank you.
Okay, Al, in case you don't have your Flight Plan handy, we need to start a "P20 plus-X Forward" in a couple of minutes, and that will be followed by a deploy of the Gamma-ray boom.
Rog; Karl. I'm on it.
Al, are we in time to get a mark from you to when you start the Gamma-ray boom out?
Rog. I'm ready now. Gamma-ray boom going out.
Now.
Thank you.
Hey, time for exercise, Al.
Yeah, I guess that's right, Karl.
Okay, Karl.
Mark; on the Gamma-ray boom.
Thank you.
Al, you may be interested to know that the Rover boys are up on the slopes of Hadley Delta now. They got themselves up to - to an area where there is considerable angle on the hillside, I'd guess 20, maybe almost 30 degrees. And it's still very fine soil, which acts a lot like snow. And you should have saw Dave about 5 minutes ago; took a beautiful spill in it.
Tell them to be careful.
Roger.
Al, as you go around the corner, all your systems are looking good.
Roger, Karl.
See you on the other side.
Okay.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Hello, Houston; Endeavour. Reading you loud and clear.
Same here. How goes it up there?
Go ahead, we're ready to copy.
Okay, talk - discussing the - the flow in crater Waterman, south of Tsiolkovsky, I guess what I said before still applies. The - what looks like on a map is the channel between Waterman and Tsiolkovsky is, in fact, too high for anything to flow between the two. There's - there's definitely some elevation there. However, looking at it this time, it's pretty plain that that channel - or gully, or whatever you call the breach in - in Tsiolkovsky's wall there between Waterman and Tsiolkovsky is caused by a graben-like fault system. There are two faults that run through there, and they run almost north and south right towards the central peaks, diverging - the one - the one on the west side, is slightly - is angled slightly to the northwest, but the other one goes almost directly north. And the source of the lava flow in Waterman appears to be high in the - in the wall of Waterman, on the north edge, right where the fault zone crosses the - the rim of Waterman.
Roger, Al. We copy.
Okay, now there are a couple of other small - small craters around Tsiolkovsky. Particularly, one on the north side, on the northeast corner, the first large crater that you see there, has a very distinctive lava flow or some kind of flow down in the crater. And that flow also originates up in the corner or up in the - in the high towards the rim of that particular crater, where there's some contact between the - the Tsiolkovsky rim and the rim of that small crater.
Roger.
Now again, I saw no evidence of - of any kind of a rock slide to the south of Tsiolkovsky, but the one on the west there is, looks - you know every time I go over it - it certainly confirms my opinion that that's a rock slide. The lineaments, the way the - the thing ended, the lobate - the lobate tongues on it and everything.
Al, Vance here. You have any comments on the rim of the north, northwest side, where you, it appears the rim might have slipped or - or you have a - a fault which shows the displacement?
Oh, yeah, Vance, very definitely. There are a couple of fault zones, through there, and you can - you can see the displacement quite clearly from the air. The one, the fault zone between Waterman and Tsiolkovsky, is a - is a lot more subtle, but I - but I'm quite sure that, that's what's going on there. But the one on the west side is - is very clear. That - that's true.
Al, we'd like to have High Gain, Auto.
And, Vance, another comment about that. You got High Gain, Auto, by the way. Another comment about that, where that fault zone appears on the west side, there's much less mass wasting into the interbasin of Tsiolkovsky, than there is around the rest of the - of the crater. Most of that mass wasting seems to taken place outside the crater.
That's an interesting observation.
Al, Vance and I called up to your apartment a little while ago. Your folks are there. And I guess, as you know, they've got a squawk box look - listening in...
Oh, great.
listening on our loop with great interest. Except when you go behind the Moon, then they - then they watch the other show that's taking place on the surface. They said to say "Hello." And, they sound like they're having a good time up there.
Very good. Very good. Hello, folks.
Al, in 30 seconds we're coming up to a Pan Camera operation, to Mode, Standby; Power, On.
Rog.
Al, while we're waiting for that Pan Camera, Off cue, I've got a couple of photo PADs - a couple of Flight Plan updates here for you, if you can copy them.
Okay, Karl; go ahead.
Okay. 148 hours and 0 minutes, they would like to have you get some good shots on those lava flows you saw over in Imbrium. And the recommendations that we have are as follows: CM3, EL, 250 mm lens, CEX, f5.6, 1/125, infinity, 5 frames at 10 second intervals. Recommend convergent photos starting at TCA minus 30 seconds. The aim point is up to you. Magazine Q, and record frame number. And then on the same page, 148 hours and 18 minutes, we don't need to do that P52 there, because the platform looks very good.
Okay, Karl. Understand photos of the lava flows in Imbrium that we noted on the last rev, that'd be CM3/EL/250, CEX, f5.6, 1/125, infinity, 5 frames in 10 seconds, use magazine Q, and try and get convergent stereo starting at TCA minus 30.
That's correct.
And, also, delete the P52.
Roger.
Karl, while we're going over Crisium here. Looking down at Picard, at Peirce and at Lick, I noticed that all of those craters, that's - that's Lick Delta by the way, Lick Delta, Picard, and Peirce, all look like - they're - they're all about the same. They all have the same ring structure, all have the same low rims. The rims are - are - are what look like very shallow compared to the rims on the other craters I've seen around. And, also, they all have a slightly darker halo effect around the - the entire crater. But the - the color difference is very subtle.
Roger, Al. As I look on the map here, they look like they might have been old craters flooded by the mare. Is that - does that seem feasible to you as you look at them?
No, it doesn't to me, Karl. They're a quite different texture inside, and you can see the ring structure clear down to the bottom of the crater. So I would say that they were - they were - they were not flooded craters.
Roger. Okay.
Hey, Al. Relevant to your observations coming up on Littrow here, Farouk has asked whether the comments that you made previously about Littrow, seeing a - a mantling of dark material everywhere with a few puddles in the valleys, whether that same comment would - pertain to Sulpic - Sulpicia - yes...
Sulpicius Gallus?
Sulpicius Gallus. Or do you...
yes, Okay. Sulpicius Gallus. Certainly, Karl.
Right. Do they - do they look like very similar areas, or are there some contrasts there?
Okay. I'll let you know when I get there. Unfortunately, I think I'm not - I think I'm going to be out of attitude to take a look at Sulpicius Gallus.
Okay. That's for future reference then.
Yeah, okay. But I'll - if - if I can see across Serenitatis there, I'll - I'll give you a hack on that.
Okay. I guess I should keep quiet a while and let you look at Littrow coming up in about a minute.
Al, we can have Pan Camera Power, Off now.
Okay. Pan Camera Power, Off.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Okay. Karl, I can give you at least a partial answer on that question. The - the coloration that seems to be continuous from Littrow all the way around through Sulpicius Gallus is the middle color. It's slightly darker than the rest of the mare basin itself and not quite as dark as some isolated or localized areas within the Littrow area.
Roger, Al, you're...
And that ledge looks like it's caused by a - a harder material.
Roger. You're coming through loud and clear.
Do any of the other craters around that area, around Bessel, show the same sort of interior ledge like that?
Well, unfortunately, Bessel is the only one of that magnitude around - around that particular area. And I don't see any other craters that appear to go down below - whose depth appears to go down below the depth of the rim in Bessel.
Right. I - the only two I see possible here are Bessel E and Sulpicius Gallus; and I guess they might not go that deep even so.
Hey, Al, have you ever looked at Autolycus and Aristillus with the thought in mind of determining which overlaps the other; which is the younger?
No, I haven't yet, Karl. Maybe this is a good time to do it.
Endeavour, we have the Mapping Camera coming Off in just one minute.
Rog, Houston.
Al, I have a couple of comments on the water dump coming up in - 10 or 15 minutes.
Okay. Go ahead.
We'd like to dump down to 10 percent. Stop at 10 percent. And they say that the dump will probably take about 8 minutes, so about 6 minutes after you start dumping, keep an eye on it and stop at 10 percent. And also, they'd like for you again to - to make an observation of the particle cloud at the sunset and sunrise terminators, if you would, please.
Okay. Will do. And I understand you just want me to dump down to 10 percent.
That's correct. And over at 146:33, where you have a "Gamma-ray Gain Step Shield, On,," we'd like you to take - to make one step increase in - in gain there. That's up momentarily, once.
And that's at what time?
That's over at 146:33, where you - they want you to put Shield, On. After you have it on center, take it up once momentarily for one step increase in gain, and then leave it on center.
Okay; Understand. Gain Step Shield, On and go one step up, and then leave it Shield, up.
That's affirmative.
Okay, Endeavour. We're coming up to Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, Off in - in about 5 seconds.
Al, a bulletin from Hadley Rille, says that...
from what?
Go ahead.
Go ahead, Al. We're listening.
Karl, I didn't call. I'm waiting on you.
Oh, Roger. A bulletin from Hadley Rille - the crew finished their exploration of the Apennine front. They got over to Spur Crater and actually into Spur Crater, found there a large block of rock, which probably is a really true sample of the Apennine Front and got some good samples there. And, now they're driving back down by the South Complex and they're digging some samples around Dune Crater.
Very good. Sounds like they're doing quite well down there.
Yes, indeed.
I think we're going to give lots of people lots of things to do for a while.
You said it.
Okay, Al. In about 20 seconds, we have the Gamma-ray operation coming up.
Rog, Karl.
Okay. You've got the Gain Step, one step, then it's back at Shield up.
Very good.
Al, this is Houston. All of your systems are looking in great shape as you go around the corner.
Okay, Karl. And we're looking okay up here. Getting ready to do the gegenschein calibration.
Very good.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Hello, Houston; Endeavour. Loud and clear.
Good to hear your cheery voice. How is everything up there?
Yeah, just fine. It took us a little longer to lock up that time.
Yeah. A couple of minutes, but it still wasn't bad.
And, Karl, on the waste water dump, I overshot 10 percent, just a little bit, but I'm reading - I'm reading about 10 percent now.
How much was that?
I'm reading 10 percent.
Roger. Reading 10 percent now. I copy that.
Al, we'd like to have High Gain, Narrow and Auto.
Okay, Houston. You got it.
Very good. Thank you.
And, one other thing, Karl. The attitude change from the gegenschein calibration attitude to plus-X forward SIM attitude was pretty squarely in the middle of the gimbal lock. And I had to do some maneuvering to get around it, using a little extra fuel. You might run that back through with the FAO.
Roger. We copy.
Al, still a little trouble on the High Gain. Let's go Wide Beam for a second or two and back to Narrow.
Endeavour, let's go back to Reacq.
Al, we'd like to go Pitch, minus 11, Yaw 12, without changing the mode switch.
Understand; minus 11 and 12.
Affirmative.
Wide - Al, we need to go to Wide for a couple of seconds and then back to Narrow.
Endeavour, could we have Wide Beam again for a couple of seconds and then Narrow.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read?
Houston, I'm reading you loud and clear, 5 square.
Good. Sorry about all of this High Gain switching problem. We're - we'll try to get it squared away - away real quick. I'll let you get back to your parsley soup.
Okay. I was just getting it out.
And, Karl, you'll be interested to know I had a very good exercise period this time.
Very good. Glad to near it.
We're all squared away on the High Gain now, Al. Thank you.
Okay, Karl. Was there a problem associated with my gear, or with yours?
We sus - we suspect that there was some problem about the new attitude, and we were getting some sort of reflection off your skin up there.
I see. Okay.
Endeavour, we'd like to have High Gain, Auto.
Okay. You got Auto.
Houston, Endeavour.
Endeavour. Go ahead.
Okay. While I'm trying to get a bite of lunch here, I thought I'd just tell you that after the dump, the same thing happened - the same kind of cloud, the same kind of particles that - that I described yesterday. And they've just about - they've just about dispersed now. Well, you know, Karl, the interesting thing, I guess I hadn't thought about it before, but when you're sitting up here looking at the surface through one window, it's just pitch black out the other windows. So you go from a very bright scene in one window to a black in the other.
Yes. So, actually out - out the dark window...
Out the dark window, you are still able to see particles?
Yes, I see particles; there's no cloud now.
You - you did see...
You could until just a few minutes ago, and the particles dissipated rather quickly; and now I don't see any particles out that window.
Roger. We copy.
Al, another bulletin from the lunar surface. The fellows have been back at the LM for some time and working again on the ALSEP. And the problems they had with the drill, they're trying to catch up with now. And yesterday they got in one of the heat sensors and then had trouble finding the time to get in the second one. But they did get the second one in today, and I guess now they're going to go after the core - the core drill sample.
Sounds like they're pretty busy down there, Karl.
Yep, they are having a good time there, all right.
Well, good for them. I'm having a hard time keeping my lobster bisque in the bag up here.
Hey, that sounds like a tough life you've got there.
I just stopped to look at the clock, Al, and I see that the flow photos are coming up on us almost immediately, if you'd like to take them.
Rog.
As I look at the Flight Plan, I had that marked at 148 hours and 0 minutes. They must have given you a 5-minute pad there. As I see your position on the Moon, you've got a while before you get there. Is that correct?
Right, Karl. That's the way it looks to me.
I have you coming up on Hadley, right - Well, you've just passed Hadley, I guess.
Yes, that's right. I'm just going over Archimedes right now.
Righto.
Karl, Endeavour. Just for your information, at the present time I'm right over Timocharis, and Lambert's coming up on - on the - just to the south of me, with Lambert R a very subdued ring just to the - to the south of Lambert. And the photos I want to take are over around the area of Mount La Hire and La Hire Rilles, a little bit west of Lambert.
We copy that.
And, as a matter of fact, I have - Mount La Hire seems to be in view now and looks like I'm heading right at it.
Hey, as I look at the map here, it looks like about three - three hills with a crater in the top of each - look like volcanoes here although this map is lousy from that point of view. What do they look like to you?
Well, I can see a - the - the - they're a chain of hills - ridges, and I can't see much more than that from here right now.
Rog.
Okay, Karl. If you're following on the map, I'm right south of the intersection of the La Hire Rilles and the wrinkle ridge that runs off to the northwest there, just by Mount La Hire. In fact, I'm directly over Mount La Hire now, and it looks like there's a volcano in - or not a volcano, but a crater, in the top of the western-most hill.
Roger.
And I'm starting to take some pictures to the west now.
We copy.
Al, can you clarify a little more exactly where you're photographing. I see a wrinkle ridge running northwest toward Caroline Herschel from the La Hire Rilles, so this is where I'd guess you're working. Is that correct?
Negative. That's the large wrinkle ridge running off toward C. Herschel. No, I'm working directly west of La Hire Rilles in that open area out there. Say on a line between Euler and Heis.
Roger. I copy.
And there's nothing particularly significant that you can see on the map there. It's just that the La Hire Rilles seem to be associated with a lot of those flows, and the flows - there's so many of them, and they're so overlapping and intermingling that I just want to get some general pictures of those flows coming out of La Hire.
Roger. That sounds like a very interesting region, and I see over by Diophantus there, you've got some very prominent rilles at the present time that probably are just on the - on the terminator, aren't they?
Yes, Karl. I'm - I'm beyond the terminator now.
Next time you get the Flight Plan in hand, let me give you the T-start for the zodiacal light photography.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. 148:34:26 is the zodiacal light photo PAD.
Understand, 148:34:26.
That's affirmative.
Say again, Endeavour.
Go ahead.
Disregard, Al. I thought I heard you call, and it was just something else in the background, I guess.
Jim is busy drigging - digging trenches there by the LM, and he just about dug a hole big enough to - to build a swimming pool in. He did a good job.
Can you see as far south as the Carpathian Mountains, Al?
That's negative, Karl. I'm in - I'm - I'm beyond the terminator now in total darkness.
Right.
If you - if your orbit ever brings you far enough south to look at those Carpathian Mountains, I should think that would be pretty interesting. I - well, you probably know better than I, I guess, that's probably an overflow of Procellarum into Imbrium there. Probably sort of - well, if that's true, it should have the appearance of the front edge of a lava flow, although it is a tremendous thing.
Endeavour, this is Houston. The Rover boys have finished their tasks - most of their tasks with the ALSEP, and they are just now beginning ingress into the LM. Dave managed to get the core drill completely in; and, although he hasn't pulled it out yet, he'll pull it out on the next EVA. The time to set the mission timer, or to set your countdown for the zodiacal light photos is going to be about in one minute. And the word down here is that all of your systems are Go; everything's looking super.
Roger, Karl. Thank you very much. See you on the other side. And, if you'll check my DSKY, you'll see I got the time count down there too.
Very good.
And I'm even managing to finish my lunch. Thank you.
That is a soft life up there, when you get a chance to finish your lunch.
You better believe it. Some times it's not so easy.
I can believe it.
Endeavour, Houston. Over.
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read?
Endeavour, Houston.
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read?
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read?
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read?
And Houston. Endeavour loud and clear, and I've got you locked up now.
Roger. I thought you were trying to tell us something.
Not trying to tell you a thing, Bobby.
And Al, this is Houston. If you've got a moment, we've got the usual number of little updates to give you.
Go right ahead, sir. For a change, I'm ready to copy.
Okay. First of all, we're going to cancel the VHF comm check at 149:37. Your buddies just got into the LM down there, and we don't think they'll be ready, and we won't push them at this time on that.
Okay. Understand.
And the second one is, it looks like we'll be delaying your Mapping Camera business at 150:10 in the Flight Plan, and we'll get back to you later on exactly what we'll be doing and when on that. And now if you'll turn to 151 hours, we have a Mapping Camera photo PAD for you.
Do you mean a Pan Camera photo PAD?
Negative. It says M - A - P.
At 151?
Stand by.
Okay, Al, a little explanation. It's a photo PAD I'm due to read you at 150 and 10. You can find the little block there, and it happens that the pass and all that will be taking place on the 151-hour frame. So it's at the 151:10 - 150 and 10 that you'll find the little squares for it.
Okay. I'm with you. Yeah, when you call out a time like that, that's the time I go to the Flight Plan.
Roger. I thought that's what you should do - but I guess I was wrong. Okay. T-start, 151:09...
Okay, 150 plus 10?
Roger. Okay. T-start, 151:09:22; T-stop, 152:09:01. And there's a little note that says at T-start...
Roger. Understand.
Go ahead with the rest of the PAD, Bob.
Okay. At T-start, "Mapping Camera Image Motion, Increase, talkback barber pole plus 4". At 151:52:00, "Mapping Camera Image Motion, Increase, talkback barber pole". And then I have a Pan Camera photo PAD, if you're ready to copy that.
Okay. Let's get this mapping camera straightened out first. T-start is 151:09:22. T-stop, 152:09:01. At T-start, go "Image Motion, Increase, to barber pole plus 4"; at 151:52:00, go "Image Motion, Increase, to barber pole".
Roger. And this Pan Camera is the one at 151:03 in the Flight Plan.
Roger. Go.
Okay. It says T-start, 151:13:13. T-stop, 151:37:01. And the next Pan Camera PAD will voiced up next rev. Over.
Okay, Bob. Understand. T-start is 151:13:13; T-stop, 151:37:01.
Roger. Copy.
Okay, Al, and another addition is that at 1505 in the Flight Plan, you'll see some Mapping Camera activities, and you'll find that 150:05.
Okay, go ahead.
Roger. And we will move the activities that start with the "Laser Altimeter, On" - that's the third line down in that little block. Move the activities starting with "Laser Altimeter, On", to "Mapping Camera Image Motion, Increase, to, On" which is the last line in that little block. Those will be moved to 151 hours and we will supply you with a T-start later.
Roger; understand. All items between "Laser Altimeter, On", and "Mapping Camera Image Motion, Increase, to barber pole" should be moved to a GET of 151:00 and you'll supply a start time later.
Roger.
And Al, that T-start - turns out I gave to you - is the 151:09:22.
I see. Convenient, isn't it?
Well, sort of.
Endeavour, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston; Endeavour.
Roger. Whenever you got a moment, we've got a few questions the King would like to have asked of you concerning your photo activities so far.
Rog. Go ahead.
Okay. Hey, Al, Vance here. If you've got a pencil and paper and I'll let you write these things down. Should take about 5 minutes.
Okay, just a sec.
Okay, Vance, go ahead.
Okay. These are going to all refer to your visual sighting targets, and so the first one is V-1B, Tsiolkovsky. You don't need to pull out the book, just - but I'll reference them to pages in the book. First question - or the first comment is, would you mark area on - in your book - on the central peak where you saw layering and when you get back we can look at it?
Okay, got that one. Go ahead.
Okay. You spoke of a crater on the north-east side of Tsiolkovsky's rim, and you said it had a fault line. Could you mark that on your map, also?
Okay. I think I already have, but I'll double check.
Okay. Next, referring to the - the rim of Tsiolkovsky, you know, the famous sections that appear to be moved inward and outward. The question - Does it appear to you that the west segment of the wall moved inward, or did the northwest segment move outward?
I think it's just the other way around, Vance, I'll - I'll check it again and mark it on the map next time by; but, as I recall, I think the west section looks like it's moved westward.
Okay. Next, and this would be the V-1A, question 2. We'd just like to have you make sure that you take in a look at that one.
Okay. What's the title on V-1A?
Okay, that's Tsiolkovsky also. Question 2.
Oh, I see. Yeah, okay. Yeah.
Okay, going to V-2. Referring to Picard, you talked about the layering on Picard wall. Do the layers have a uniform thickness and any estimate of how thick the layers are?
Yes.
You might speak of the thickness of the layers in terms of the total depth of the crater.
In terms of the depth of the crater - or in terms of the diameter of the crater?
Well, either way - most convenient with you.
Well, okay. That's a - that's a little difficult to do because the layering is - most of the layering is pretty - pretty thin. I would say - maybe 1/20th of the thickness or the - 1/20th of the depth of the crater and - very small - comparison with the total diameter. I'd say maybe 1 percent thickness layer as compared to the diameter.
Okay.
Okay, going to V-5. This is Littrow. Al, you mentioned the cinder cones, and there's just some curiosity on the relative size of these cinder cones. And - in judging the size, it's 12 kilometers between each line on your V-5 photo. And while we're at it, are the cinder cones fairly evenly distributed or are they concentrated in the spots on this darkest unit?
They're concentrated in spots on the darkest unit, and they seem to be concentrated in localized areas also within the darker units. There'd be a relatively high density of these small cones, and then a few scattered ones in the - you know, in the outlying areas. But I would say they were concentrated within the darker areas, more on the lowland side, you know, in the valleys and in what looks like the lower areas. And within - within concentrations of cinder cones there seems to be one locus of major activity, one locus of greatest number of cones, and then they thin out beyond that.
Okay. Maybe you can mark that on your map where you see these concentrations.
Yeah, I can do that, but I think the pictures will be better, Vance, because the cinder cones are much smaller than the definition in the picture.
Okay. And I'll give you one more, V-8, and that's the landing site. Just like to make sure you try to get an opinion of questions 1 and 2 and the age relationship also on that question we asked earlier about Aristillus and Autolycus and that's all I'll give you right now.
Yes. Okay, Vance. I'm over the landing site now and that unit up along the western edge of the Front there to the northeast of the landing site very definitely looks like a flow unit that's - that's flowed along or parallel to the base of the Front.
Okay. Copy that. I guess you got some other stuff coming up.
You can make - you can make out some...
Go.
Okay, that's about it, Al. I'll turn you back to Bob and - just some things to mull over.
Okay, Vance. Thanks much.
Righto.
Okay. And, incidentally, on this Mapping Camera pass, you started that block at "Laser Altimeter, On". Do you want that to start at - at the covers opening or do you want me to go ahead and extend the camera now?
We had a PAD that started at "Mapping Camera Covers, Open", and they explicitly took that one away and gave me one that started "Laser Altimeter, On". So I presume they want the first two lines done.
Okay. Well, I'm going to go ahead and open the covers and extend the camera then.
Okay, camera's extending.
Copy.
And Endeavour, Houston. Over.
Houston, Endeavour. Go ahead.
Rog. At your convenience, we'll take P00 and Accept and send you up a state vector, and - we need Accept, and we'll send you a state vector and clock update. And, I've got a TEI-45 PAD, at your convenience.
Okay, Bob. Ready for both.
Okay, we're talking to you and I've got the TEI-45; says SPS/G&N: 37264; plus 0.60, plus 1.00; 166:38:58.32; plus 2832.6, plus 0290.1, minus 0078.2; 180, 129, 009. Rest of the PAD is NA. Notes: 1. Longitude at TIG plus 163.63. 2. Assumes no plane change. And ullage is 17 seconds...
Roger. Understand.
Okay, Al. And ullage is 17 seconds, two quads, Bravo and Delta. Over.
Okay, Houston. Understand. TEI-45, SPS G&N; 37264; plus 0.60, plus 1.01; 166:38:58.32; plus 2832.6, plus 0290.1, minus 0078.2; 180, 129, 009. That's two jets for 17 seconds, and you want quads B and D used. And this assumes no plane change, and longitude at TIG is 163.63.
Roger. And, the Noun 48 values are plus 060 and plus 100. Is that right?
Rog. Plus 100 - plus 060 and plus 100.
Okay. Readback good.
And Endeavour, computer is yours again.
Roger, Houston.
And Endeavour, Houston. We'd like to terminate Battery A charge at this time.
Roger, Houston. Terminating A.
And Endeavour, as you go around the hill, you're looking good. We'll look for you on the other side.
Okay, Houston. See you on the other side.
And, Endeavour, Houston. How do you read?
Houston - Houston, Endeavour. Loud and clear.
Okay. Ready for - the usual updates?
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. Pan Camera photo PAD for your 151:50 in the Flight Plan.
Go ahead.
Okay. It's 151:57:14 for T-start. T-stop is 151:58:27. Over.
Understand. T-start, 151:57:14. T-stop, 151:58:27.
Roger, Al. And we got a couple of VHFs - we got a single VHF window for you if you want to try and get hold of the crew down below. AOS is 151:51:25 and 152:04:15 for LOS. Over.
Okay, I understand. AOS with LM is 151:51 and LOS is about 152:04.
Roger. And if you'll give us cue just a little bit ahead, we'll get them to go to Voice so they can pick you up.
Okay, will do.
Okay. And second item, Al, is we're not going to put the Mass Spec. boom out tonight because of the problems we've been having with deployment. And so, we want to delete the following operations of the Flight Plan. Starting on 152:10 - 152:10. We'll delete the boom deployment at 152:10. We will delete the Experiment and Ion Source, On, and Standby, at 152:13. And we will delete the Multiplier, Discriminator, and Ion Source functions at 152:45. Over.
Okay, Bob. Understand 152:11, delete Mass Spec deployment, that whole line, and then delete the line that turns the experiment on at 152:13, and then at 152:45, delete the multiplier discriminator steps.
Roger. And, going over to the next page at 153:36, we will delete "Gamma-ray: Gain Step, Shield Off".
Understand. Delete the "Shield, Off" at 153:36.
Roger. And then going down to 153:46, we'll delete "Shield, On".
Understand. Delete "Shield, On" at 153:46.
Roger. And a - a general question here, Al. We've been talking on the ground and we'd appreciate any comments on the general photo results you been having, any difficulties or problems you've been experiencing in the general photographic work, both gegenschein and zodiacal-light type, and surface type. So far, we've generally assumed that negative reporting was - meant that everything was going well. Is that right?
Hello, Houston, Endeavour.
Yes, I read you loud and clear, Al.
Okay. You went away on me there. question about.
Stand by, Al.
Al, how do you read Houston?
Okay. I read you loud and clear.
Okay. Did you copy my question there on comments concerning your procedures on the photo, general - generally both gegenschein, zodiacal light, and surface?
You say - The question is: do I have any questions on it?
Rog. My question was: did you copy my question?
Why don't we start from scratch again, Bob. You were cut there quite a bit when you first started talking and it sounds like I'm reading you okay now. So why we just start all over again.
Yeah, I think we have a little comm problem with the LM, which affected us. Okay. People on the ground have generally been assuming that negative reporting on any difficulties with the Command Module photo procedures meant that everything was going along swingingly. Is that a correct assumption?
That is a correct assumption, right.
Okay. We'll continue to make that assumption. Thank you.
Yeah, so far everything - particularly the zodiacal light and the gegenschein calibration and that sort of thing has been going just as per Flight Plan.
Beautiful.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Okay, Bob. I'm going to try to give a call now, down at Falcon.
Okay. Stan - Go ahead and I'll - You won't get them right off, but I'll tell them to go to Voice.
Okay. And I'm going to call them on Simplex A.
Understand. Simplex Alpha.
Affirm.
Falcon, Houston. O...
Go ahead.
Roger; Al's going to give you a call on Simplex Alpha about now.
Okay, thank you.
Hello - Hello, Falcon. This is Endeavour.
Hello, Falcon. This is Endeavour.
Hello, Falcon. Endeavour.
Falcon, this is Houston. Al's been calling you.
Haven't read him yet.
Hello there, Falcon. This is Endeavour.
Okay. Endeavour, Falcon. You must be on the other side of the mountains and we'll just stand by until you get over it, because you are always broken over there on the other side.
Hello, Falcon. Endeavour.
Hi, Endeavour; the Falcon. How are you?
I'm doing fine. How are you doing?
How do you read me now, Falcon?
Hello, Falcon. This is Endeavour.
Endeavour, Falcon. You're broken. How's us?
You're a little broken too, Dave. How's it going?
Okay, we'll wait until you get closer overhead, so you get past the mountains.
Okay, I'm just about overhead now.
And, Endeavour, you're about 30 seconds from your Pan Camera.
How are things going up there? Getting lots of good data?
Rog.
Oh, getting lots and lots of good data. How about you?
Yeah, we are too. Got a little over 100 pounds today.
Very good.
Got up the side of the mountain. Got a good look around. Things are going real well.
Pretty spectacular up beside that mountain, I bet.
Oh, man, it was super, just super. We got some great pictures for you.
Good. I hope I got some good ones for you, too.
Yeah, I tell you, I hope you can see these Rover tracks, because outside the LM here, it looks like a freeway.
Yeah, I'll bet it does. Well, you can collect you another bunch of rocks tomorrow and bring them home.
Okay, make a nice little place for them.
Well, we'll make a place for whatever you bring home.
Okay, very good.
Hey, Al, throw my soap down, will you? And my spoon.
You forget something, Jim?
I really need my soap.
Don't mind if I use it, do you?
Save me a little bit.
Well, I haven't had a chance to use it yet, but I might tonight.
I suggest you wait until tomorrow night, Al.
Yeah, that's true. I guess it'll pay for us all to do that tomorrow night.
Yeah, I tell you, our suits were pretty yesterday, but.
How are they holding up?
Very well. Holding up real good.
Understand the Rover's doing fine.
Well, the Rover is doing absolutely super. We were going up the side of that mountain like.
Sounds great!
Yes, it's really a super little machine.
Okay, Al. Pan Camera, Off, please.
Okay.
Falcon, you still there?
Falcon, can you read Endeavour now?
And Endeavour, Houston. We still don't have the Pan Camera, Off, as far as we can see.
Roger. Power coming off now, Bob.
Okay.
Sorry about that. I didn't get it turned off quite as quick as I wanted.
I guess that's what Spence was trying to tell me.
Rog. I went to Standby on your call before?
Okay. Thank you. Hey, and Al, we'd like to get High Gain Antenna, Auto, from you. And sometime, at your convenience, you might send us down a film usage PAD.
Okay. I'll set - I'll compile that on the way around the next time.
Roger. Thank you.
And Endeavour, Houston. Over.
Houston, Endeavour. Go ahead.
Roger. We'd also like, when you turn off the Mapping Camera in the next few minutes, we'd like you to delay turning off the Laser Altimeter and closing the covers until we give you a call from the ground. We'd like to look at the Laser Altimeter on with the Mapping Camera off for a few minutes.
Okay. Will do.
Thank you.
Al, Houston. Over.
Houston, Endeavour. Go ahead.
Al, would you turn the Laser off and we'll call you shortly and have you turn it back on.
Okay, Vance, going off now.
Roger. Okay. We're ready for it back on. Thank you.
Back on.
Endeavour, Houston.
Houston, Endeavour. Go ahead.
Roger. We'd like to see the Laser Altimeter, Off at this time, and you can follow up on the rest of those things per the Flight Plan; closing - retracting the Mapping Camera, et cetera, and closing the cover.
Okay, Houston. That's in work.
Okay, and we'd also like you to verify if the Gamma-ray boom is out at the present time.
That's negative. It's going out now.
Copy. Thank you.
Houston, Endeavour.
Hello, Houston, Endeavour.
Endeavour, you called Houston?
Houston, Endeavour. Yeah. I sure did, Bob.
Roger. I was talking to Jim and Dave. Go ahead.
Okay. You still logging Delta-Ts on extend and retracts.
Yeah!
Well, I guess that means yes. Delta-T in the Gamma-ray extend was 2 plus 37, and on the Mapping Camera, retract was 3 plus 32.
Roger. Copy, Al.
Okay.
And, Endeavour; Houston. We see you going around the corner. You're looking good to us; we'll see you on the other end.
Okay, Houston. See you on the other side.
Bye, bye.
Endeavour, Houston. Over.
Hello, Houston. Endeavour.
Okay, Endeavour. We've got a couple of long-sort-of dissertations to read to you. One, is a dissertation and two, a question. So if you've got a minute, let me know, and I'll talk to you between bites of your supper.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. It says here. We've observed the use of P30 for long periods of time and this appears to be degrading the P20 attitude calculations during narrow deadband camera activity. And this is causing a slight increase in RCS usage. If you want to use P30, they're recommending you follow the following procedures. And you won't be doing any of it tonight, obviously, and I think we'll come up and let you copy them down tomorrow. This is just, I guess, to acquaint you with the problem and let you think about it tonight while you're sleeping. The procedures we're recommending, when you use P30, as are follows: One, reselect P20; that is, release P30 once every 30 minutes, and allow the computer to integrate its state vector forward. This is about a 30-second delay. And then, number 2, do not input a TIG time of more than 30 minutes into the future while you're in narrow deadband. Does that make sense to you?
Yeah. Keep talking.
Okay. As I say, we'll come back up and let you copy down some of those specific words again tomorrow, before you get involved. The second long one concerns clarification of Mass Spec. behavior, when it fouled up about 12 hours ago. And they're asking us, to ask you the following questions, to try and clarify what - what was going on. First of all, was the talkback ever one-half barber pole during the extend, while attempting to recycle for retraction? Over.
The answer to that one is no.
Okay. Two, was the barber pole indication a half or between a half and three quarters of full during retract?
Don't know how to answer that one, Bob, because the barber pole itself - if you get a full barber pole, you only get about two thirds.
Okay. Understand. Did the talkback change state after approximately...
And I was getting about half of that.
Okay. You're getting about half of the normal 2/3.
That's correct.
Okay. Third question. Did the talkback change state after approximately 3 minutes, or was it a half barber pole all the time during the retraction?
Well I can't answer that one specifically, since I didn't sit there and watch the barber pole all the time.
Okay.
However, I did - When I went back to the Mass Spec., to cycle the thing to Deploy and Retract to see if there was any possibility of the cabling out there getting kinked, that was when I noticed that it went to half barber pole on the retract side.
Okay. Copy that. And did you - talk the back - did you ever tap the barber pole when it was half barber pole?
I'm sorry. Say again.
Did you ever tap the talkbacks to see if you could make it flip over?
I noticed a couple of times, when I went to Retract, the barber pole would go - it would go full barber pole and then very slowly slip down to about half barber pole and stay there.
Okay. But did you tap the talkback at any time? Tap?
Oh, did I tap it? Negative. Negative.
Okay. And, during the recycling of the switch, can you estimate the maximum time you were in the Extend position?
I'm not sure I understand your question. You mean the maximum time I was in the Extend position during the retract cycle?
Stand by.
Al, what's wanted is the total accumulative time that you went back to the Extend position, and back and forth, while you were trying to recycle it in order to free it. In other words, if you went back to 30 seconds and then to Retract, and then back to Extend for 40 seconds et cetera. What was the total accumulated time, or an estimate thereof, that you were in the Extend position?
Okay, Bob. I would estimate that I was in the Extend position a total of about 15 seconds.
Okay. And what was the longest single time?
Oh, probably 4 seconds.
Okay. A couple of other small ones, Al. Reminding you that we - we're deleting the cabin pump up from the presleep checklist. And a reminder when we get to the presleep checklist and the crew status, would you please remember to give us the PRDs. We just didn't get that from the crew on the ground and the Surgeons were very anxious to get yours, at least. And we also, I guess, are due some P52 torquing angles.
Okay. He wants my PRD, even though it's the one that's not working, huh?
Well - they - Anything's better than nothing.
I guess you're right. Here's some torquing angles for you, Bob. used stars 41 and 43. Noun 05 was plus 4 balls one. Noun 93 was plus 00028, minus 00031, plus all zeros. And it was torqued out at 152:46:00.
Roger. Copy. 01, 28, 31, all balls, 152:46:00.
And I've got a film update for you, there, Bob, to give to Spencer.
Go ahead.
Okay. The magazines used today, and the exposures. These are a total - a total frame readings, too. Magazine Q is reading 31, magazine F is reading 111, Magazine T is 37 and that one's been changed out for Uniform, for U, Uniform. And Uniform's now reading 31.
Roger. Copy, Al.
Houston, Endeavour.
Go ahead, Endeavour.
Endeavour, Houston. Go ahead.
Okay, Houston. I got your status reports for you, if you're ready to copy.
All righty.
Okay. Crew status, no medication. Everything seems to be fine. PRD is 23163.
Go.
And the onboard read-outs: Battery C, 37; Pyro Bat A, 37; Pyro Bat B, 37; RCS A, 70; B, 68; C, 69; and D, 70.
Roger. Copy all that stuff, Al. And, Al, we'd like one final confirmation and that is that you've got Narrow, Reacquire and Pitch at plus 25; Yaw, 185. Over.
That's - that's verified.
Okay.
Okay, Al. That's all we've got. You can turn the light out and go to sleep.
Okay, I'll do just that.
Roger. Roger.
