Endeavour, this is the planet Earth calling. We'll start off the day this morning with a little bit of wake-up music for you. And if you appreciate our selection, you may respond with an E-memory dump, if you are able to hear me at the present time.
"Tijuana Taxi" by Tijuana Brass.]
Endeavour, this is the planet Earth calling this morning. We'll start off with a little bit of wake-up music and then we'll get into the day's activities. If you're awake enough to hear this, you can express your appreciation for our fine music by sending us down an E-memory dump. [No answer.]
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read now? [Pause.]
Endeavour, this is Houston. If you are reading give us Accept and we'll send up a state vector. [Pause.]
Allo, Terre. Salute de l'Endeavour.
Good morning, Al. How's the morning up there?
Well, I'll let you know when I wake up, Karl. I had another very peaceful evening.
Glad to hear it. [Long pause.]
We're ready for High Gain [Antenna to] Auto, Endeavour. [Pause.] And I have - and I have a Flight Plan update, the most important one being that, at 162:06, in about 3 minutes, we will delete - delete the "Gamma-ray [Spectrometer] Gain Step, Shield, Off." [Pause.]
Okay, Karl; understand. Let me get the Flight Plan out here.
Okay, "Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, Off" has been deleted.
Roger. And I have Mapping Camera photo PAD and some further Flight Plan updates when you are ready to copy.
Okay; go ahead.
Mapping Camera photo PAD down there at 162:55. T-start: 162:59:30, T-stop: 163:59:11.
Okay, understand. Mapping Camera photo PAD, T-start: 162:59:30, T-stop: 163:59:11.
That's correct, and further Flight Plan changes; we have very few today. At 162:16 we can delete the "Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, On."
Understand. 162:16; delete "Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, On."
Roger. Over on 163:10, we add "Map Camera, Image Motion, Increase" with appropriate barber pole comment. Increase, and then leave it on. "Increase/On" would be a better way of reading that to you.
Okay; understand. At 163:10, you want the "Image Motion, Increase to barber pole and On."
Roger. And at 163:40, we can add, "Mapping Camera, Image Motion, Increase/On." And also, "Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, Off."
Understand. At 163:40, you want the Image Motion, Increase to Increase/On. Do you want that - How many steps past barber pole do you want it? [Pause.]
Okay, Al. I - I missed a beat there. The one at 163:10 was "talkback barber pole plus 4 steps" at that time. And at 63:40, take it to "talkback barber pole" and leave it there. [Long pause.]
Did that come through okay?
Okay; understand. The one at 163:10 is "Image Motion, Increase to barber pole plus 4, and then On". And then at 163:40 is "Increase to barber pole On", and "Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, On."
Roger. 163:40, that was Shield, Off; O-F-F. and at 163:50, the Gamma-ray Gain Step will go Shield, On; Shield O-N.
Okay. Understand 163:40, Shield is Off; and 163:50, the Shield goes On.
Roger. And that's the end of the Mapping Camera and the Flight Plan update.
Rog.
The computer is yours, Al. And I have [a] consumables update, if you'd like it.
Okay; go ahead.
GET [Ground Elapsed Time] is 162 hours, 0 minutes; RCS total 60 [percent full]; Quad A: 60, [B] 60, [C] 59, [D] 61; hydrogen tanks: [1] 65, [2] 64, [3] 46; oxygen tanks: [1] 71, [2] 74, [3] 58.
Understand. RCS total is 60. That's with quads: 60, 60, 59, 61; H2 tanks: 65, 64, 46; and O2 tanks: 71, 74, 58.
That's correct.
And where do we stand on the RCS budget, Karl. Do you know?
Stand by on that, Al. We'll give you a good report in a few minutes.
Endeavour, this is Houston. On your RCS fuel, you are running roughly 6 percent below Flight Plan values, and you're still running roughly 15 percent above the red line. Quad Charlie is the lowest - the most critical quad. But, there's no big deal at the present time in any of them. Quad Charlie, incidentally, is 10 percent above the red.
Okay, Karl.
Quad Charlie, incidentally, is 10 percent above the red line.
Okay. Sounds fine.
Endeavour, this is Houston. The latest information from Hadley Rille is that the crew is awake and about one hour from egress time. This EVA number 3 has been shortened in length somewhat to about 4½ hours in order to get our time line back on time for the nominal ascent. You can expect that you'll have some company later this afternoon.
Very good, Karl. And, let's see, I guess I can give you a crew status report if you want it.
Fire away.
Okay. I've got 7½ hours of sleep in one period. No medication. The PRD [Passive Radiation Dosimeter] is 23164.
We copy, Al.
Houston, Endeavour. If you're copying the DSKY, the gyro torquing angles are up [on it].
Roger. We've copied them, thank you. [Long pause.]
Endeavour, this is Houston. [A] couple of quick questions. First of all, the Surgeons see something of a difference in your heart rate between the two nights sleep, and just out of medical curiosity, they'd like to have your subjective evaluation. Did you sleep better last night than the night before, or vice versa?
Gee, I guess subjectively, I slept pretty well both nights.
Just about equal in other words? Okay, and...
Yes, I think so, or maybe I slept a little better last night.
Better last night?
Glad to hear that. You're con - confounding their theories. On... [Long pause.]
Al, we'd like to have you verify tape motion at LOS; and if it isn't, start the tape running for us.
Rog.
And, on this P30 business; I see something of a - a long comment they made to you last night. Is everything on that clear? [Pause.]
Rog, Karl. I think so. I - I guess for the story there is we'll stay away from using the clock at P30 as much as possible, and when we do use it, especially when we're in deadband, we won't let it run more than 30 minutes.
Okay. Everybody down here thinks that's a - a great philosophy. Good. [Long pause.]
And, Houston; Endeavour. There were a couple of questions on the Flight Plan. I guess I'm wondering what we're going to do about the Mass Spec[trometer] today. We've got some things in here. Of course, we didn't use it last night, so there are, I guess, a few steps that you're to delete.
Righto. We don't intend to use the Mass Spec. today so you can delete these particular steps about retracting, or about extending the boom, et cetera. We just are not - That was it. Delete any action on the Mass Spec.
Okay. Okay Karl. Understand.
Endeavour, this is Houston. As you go around the corner, all your systems look to be in good shape.
Roger, Houston. See you at the other side.
Endeavour, we'd like to have Narrow Beam on the High Gain [Antenna]. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston. Got it. [Pause.]
Very good, Al. You're coming through loud and clear. What's new up there?
Oh, I've just had a very nice breakfast and getting ready for today's activities.
Excellent. [Long pause.]
Our major business on this rev is to get squared away for [the] plane change [burn] and as soon as we have good comm, I want to review with you the changes we need in your SPS burn cue card. [Pause.]
Okay. Stand by.
Endeavour, this is Houston. I guess we can go ahead with the plane change data anytime you're ready to copy.
Okay, Karl. Stand by one.
Let's start out with the cue - with the cue card, if that's okay with you. [Long pause.]
Okay, Karl. Go ahead.
Okey-doke. As you know, this burn is going to be [a] fairly normal burn on bank B only. The only really special thing to remember is to close that SPS Pilot Valve Main B [circuit breaker] at 2 minutes before the burn. To make sure that we've got all the verifications and everything else straight though, let's go back into the cue card and do some verifying right after you cycle the cryo fans and before you go into your Delta-V check. And at that point, we've got, first of all, EMS Function, Off. Verify that before you put in the EMS breakers. Second is the circuit breakers, EMS Main A and B, both of them, Closed. Third step there is to verify that the circuit breakers, Group 5, both of them are Closed. And the fourth step there is to verify at this point that both of your SPS Pilot Valve circuit breakers are Open. The only other change to the front side of your cue card is the trivial point down below when you're checking your Stabilization Control circuit breakers on panel 8, that there's only 10 of them Closed at this time, instead of 12. [Long pause.]
Right. That's the Stabilization Control...
Rog, Karl...
...and SPS breakers.
...I understand. Yeah. The SPS burn is going to be a nominal bank B burn - bank B only burn. But to get set up for it, we want to check - after cycle cryo fans, check that EMS is Off, get the two EMS circuit breakers in, check that the Group 5 circuit breakers are Closed, and check that the SPS Pilot Valves both are Open at that time. And then down where it says 'CB Stability Control, panel 8, and SPS 10 or 12', we'll make that a 10.
Roger. And then over there on the back of the card - [pause] Would you give us High Gain, Auto, right now, Al?
Okay. [Pause.]
And on the back side of the card at - at minus 2 minutes, we have - the Delta-V - just above the Delta-V Thrust, we want to put in the circuit breaker, SPS Pilot Valve Main B, Closed, at that point, followed immediately by your Delta-V Thrust switch, which in this case is your B switch, not your A switch. Cross out the "A." Down below...
Rog; understand.
Down below...
You want the SPS Pilot Valves, Main B, Closed, before Delta-V Thrust B switch to Normal.
That's affirmative. And down below at plus 3 seconds, you can cross out the Delta-V Thrust switch, Normal, there since this is a single bank burn. And - [pause] Al, we'd like to have High Gain Antenna, Wide Beam, for about 5 seconds and then, Narrow.
And the final point in the checklist is in the cleanup down below, preferably after circuit breaker SPS Pitch 1 and Yaw 1, Open. Let's get our circuit breakers cleaned up here. Let's put in circuit breaker SPS Pilot Valve Main B, Open. Also, circuit breakers EMS, both of them, Open.
Rog; understand. In the cleanup, about where CB SPS Pitch 1 and Yaw 1 are Open, we'll pull CB SPS Pilot Valve Main B, Open, and CB EMS, two, Open.
That's correct. And that - assuming that your cue card was clean to start with, that should give you a - a good cue card, not only for the plane change but also for any rescue maneuvers and also for the shaping burn.
Rog; understand.
I have - [pause] and, I have - the comments here on trimming your residuals, if you're ready to copy those.
Okay. Stand by. [Long pause.]
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. LOPC [Lunar Orbit Plane Change] residuals. First of all, trim VGY to 0. - 0.2 feet per second. Next, and this is because our quad C RCS is low and we're trying to conserve it, in - in the trimming. If you have a negative VGY, roll 90 degrees counter-clockwise and use your minus-Z thrusters. If you have a positive VGY, roll 90 degrees clockwise, and use your minus-Z thrusters. And, one final comment here is during - during the burn, we would like to keep the Oxidizer Flow Valve in the Decrease - Decrease position. [Pause.]
Understand you want the Oxidizer Flow Valve in the Decrease position.
Affirmative. [Pause.]
And did everything come through on the trim.
Roger, Karl. You - you wanted to add to - to the - trim rules that we already have established for the plane change. That if the residual is a plus VGY greater than two tenths of a foot per second, then we roll clockwise 90 degrees and use the minus-Z thrusters. Otherwise the same as printed in the Flight Plan.
That's affirmative, Al.
And also, you want the PUGS valve in decrease.
That's affirmative. And the next - the next bit of information I have for you is the plane change PAD. [Long pause.]
Okay, go ahead.
Okay. Purpose, PC [Plane Change], SPS/G&N; 37202; plus 0.33, plus 1.07; 165:11:31.96; minus 0009.2, plus 0330.3, plus 0018.4; 0 roll, 0 pitch, 0 yaw; 064.4 - Say that again for HA. 0064.4, HP is plus 0053.3; 0330.9, 0:18, 0319.1; 36, 012.8, 39.2; the rest is NA. Set stars are Deneb and Vega; 189, 256, 330. Ullage, we would like two quads, B and D quads; 17 seconds, 17 seconds. And that's all.
Okay, understand. This is plane change 1; SPS/G&N; 37202; plus 0.33, plus 1.07; 165:11:31.96; minus 0009.2, plus 0330.3, plus 0018.4; roll, pitch, and yaw are all zeros; 0064.4, plus 0053.3; 0330.9, 0:18, 0319.1; 36, 012.8, 39.2. Vega and Deneb are set stars. And 189, 256, 330. Ullage is two jet, 17 seconds, using quads B and D.
That's all correct. [Long pause.]
Al, we'd like to verify that the Oxidizer Flow Valve was in the Decrease position at the end of the last burn and has been there since then.
Negative, Karl. It was in Normal at the end of the last burn, which was the circularization burn and it was - it's been in Normal since then. It's in Decrease now; I put it there after you called it out on the PAD.
Thank you, Al. [Long pause.]
Just a reminder, Al. Since I've been reading a lot of things to you, about the Pan Camera Mode, Standby; Power, On.
Rog. It's there now.
And I have a TEI-52 PAD anytime you're ready to copy. [Long pause.]
Okay, go ahead.
TEI-52, SPS/G&N; 36003; plus 0.60, plus 1.07; 180:31:51.88; plus 3030.0, minus 0893.9, minus 0231.0; 180, 088, 346; the rest is NA. We have two jets for 17 seconds with the B and D quads, Bravo and Delta quads. The Lambda at TIG is plus 177.77; and it is assumes LOPC; and ascent REFSMMAT.
Rog; understand. TEI-52, SPS/G&N; 36003; plus 0.60, plus 1.07; 180:31:51.88; plus 3030.0, minus 0893.9, minus 0231.0; 180, 088, 346; 2 jet, 17 seconds, using quads B and D. And Lambda TIG is plus 177.77; and the PAD assumes the plane change and asc - ascent REFSMMAT.
That's all correct. [Pause.]
Endeavour, we're ready for Pan Camera Power, Off, now. [Pause.]
Roger. Power is Off.
Endeavour, a reminder on the Gamma-ray Gain Step. We need the Shield, Off, at this point.
Endeavour, this is Houston. We have one small change in our set-up for the plane change burn, and that is that we would like to leave the Oxidaze - Oxidizer Utilization Valve [means Oxidizer Flow Valve, on panel 3 of the Main Display Console and part of the Propellant Utilization Gauging System (PUGS)] on - in the Normal position. We'd like it Normal instead of Decrease as we previously told you. [Pause.]
Okay, going Normal on the PUGS Valve.
Roger; and the boys on the surface have the TV tuned up for us now and we're getting some lovely landscape pictures - Hadley Delta, et cetera. Those hills there are just beautiful, round, bare hills, a lot like the ones you see around San Francisco. It's a beautiful sight. They're just about loading up the Rover and getting ready to head off toward the South Com[plex] - first of all, to the rille for a quick visit and then off to the South Complex.
Rog, Karl; understand. Did you say they are going to cut it a little bit short today?
Right. They're going to cut it between one and two hours short because they got in - they wanted to get their normal sleep today; and, I guess they won't do quite so much exploration in between, but they still expect to get to the South Complex. Pardon me, that's the North Complex.
Rog, understand.
Endeavour, this is Houston. It's time to turn off the Mapping Camera.
Endeavour, this is Houston. If you'll go P00 now, you'll have a shorter maneuver down in your maneuver to the P52 attitude. And, if you'll give us Accept, we'll send up state vector and other burn information.
Okay, Karl. You've got it; P00 and Accept.
Al, the computer is yours; you've got a state vector, a target, and a REFSMMAT.
Okay, Karl; thank you. [Pause.]
And, Houston; Endeavour. I've got the SIM bay powered down now, and turning back all the jets - turning on all the jets.
Roger, Al; we understand.
Endeavour, this is Houston. You can expect us to give you a No - Go/No Go for LOI [means LOPC or lunar orbit plane change] before LOS. No, that's - that's right; that's a Go/No Go for plane change - pardon me, I'm a little bit behind time here - before LOS, and since - since your burn is so close to AOS, we'd like to give you a procedure here, so that we can lock up without your having to go over there to throw - to throw any switches. Can you copy it now?
Rog, Karl; go ahead.
Okay. After LOS, we'd like to have you put the High Gain [Antenna] Track to Manual, and dial in Pitch, minus 10; Yaw, 251. When the high gain angle - when the High Gain Antenna [angle] meters read Pitch, minus 10 and Yaw, 251, then go to Track and Reacq with Narrow Beam. Then, if your Squelch is Off, your High Gain Antenna acquisition will be indicated at AOS by a loss of noise.
Okay. Understand you want me to position Pitch, minus 10; Yaw pl - Yaw to 251; go Reacq, Narrow, and make sure the Squelch is Off.
That's affirmative.
Endeavour, this is Houston. You're Go for plane change 1.
Houston, Roger; Endeavour. Understand Go.
Okay, Houston; Endeavour. I've got the gyro torquing angles up. You through copying them?
Endeavour, we've copied them. Thank you.
Okay.
Endeavour, this is Houston. We're 2 minutes from LOS, and all of your systems look to be in excellent shape.
Roger. Thank you, Karl.
Okay, Houston. I've got 1 minute and 45 seconds until the burn.
Roger, Endeavour. Houston reads you loud and clear, and we're standing by.
Average g.
Roger. [Pause.]
Ullage. [Long pause.]
Thrust on. [Long pause.]
Thrust off.
Houston, Endeavour. If you're copying the DSKY, you'll see residual as .2, .2, and .3, so no trim.
We copy and concur, Al, and it looks like a beautiful burn.
Yes, sir. It certainly does.
Al, if you'll give us Accept, we'll send up a lift-off REFSMMAT and a RLS update.
Okay, Karl. And if you're ready, I'll give you the rest of the burn status report. It's just the EMS and things like that.
Go ahead.
Okay. TIG was on time, and looked to me like the burn time was 18 seconds; Delta-VC was minus 10.6 [fps, 3.2 m/s]; fuel is now 26.4 [percent]; oxidizer is 26.2 [percent]; and the Increase-Decrease [i.e. PUGS manipulation] is Decrease 25.
Thank you. We copy. [Long pause.]
And, Al, in case of confusion on that Mass Spec[trometer], we do want the experiment switch on Standby.
Oh, okay, Karl. Yes, there must have been some confusion because I had scratched that off my Flight Plan. Okay, going Standby. [Long pause.]
Endeavour, Houston. The latest bulletin from Hadley Rille tells us that the crew, after spending an unusual amount of time at the LM trying to get back the core drill, with which they were only partially successful, are now moving across the lunar surface and they're currently at Hadley Rille giving us some beautiful views of the rille.
Very good. How is the TV from there, Karl?
Our TV down here is just beautiful.
Good. Save a copy for me.
We sure will, Al.
Hey, Al. Vance says "Do you want us to put it on your EMS."
Tell Vance he's got the wrong EMS, I'm afraid. Sure would like it, though.
Righto.
And you tell Vance I got cartoons on right now.
Say again.
Just tell Vance I got cartoons on. He'll know.
Okay, Al. [Long pause.]
Al, we'd like to have you stay in Accept, but give us a Verb 33, Enter.
Endeavour, this is Houston. We'd like to have the Gamma-ray Gain Step up three times, please.
Rog, Karl. Gain Step up three times.
Affirmative. [Long pause.]
Al, you can go to Block now. We've had some conflict in commands in that update to you and you got your LR - RLS update, but you didn't get the new REFSMMAT.
Okay, Karl; understand.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Will you please give us Accept?
Okay. You've got Accept.
Al, give us Verb 33, Enter. And that should complete your REFSMMAT...
Okay. You got it.
...and you can go to Block.
Okay. Thank you, sir. [Long pause.]
Endev - Endeavour, we'd like High Gain [Antenna], Auto.
Auto.
Thank you.
Al, the medics told me that they can see that you are exercising per the Flight Plan. Would you like to know what peak value you get? Peak value on the heart rate, that is.
Yeah. I'd be interested in that, Karl.
Let's see how high you can - you can...
Yes.
...work her up. It'd be good to really churn her up for a while. [Long pause.]
Okay, they got you at about 100 beats per minute for a moment.
Very good. [Long pause.]
We record 116. [Long pause.]
You made 120. Man, you must be burning that thing up. [Long pause.]
Got you at 126.
They say that looked like a real good stretch of exercise there, Al. Should stand you in good stead a couple of days from now.
Rog. I sure hope so, Karl; been keeping it up just for that reason.
Very good.
And I think it makes a difference in - in your whole outlook and - the - restful way that you can do this flight, too. A little exercise and I get a good night's sleep also.
Yep, you're probably right.
Al, I have a REFSMMAT zero time for you when you have time to copy.
Okay, Karl. Go ahead.
171:37:18.89.
Understand 171:37:18.89.
That's affirmative.
Al, we've got your angles and you can torque them.
Okay, Karl. Torquing on the minute.
Endeavour, this is Houston. All of your systems are Go as you go around the corner, and I hope to have a science update for you on the next rev. In the meantime, I can report that the X-ray data is beginning to show very clear patterns from highlands to mare region. It looks as though we are going to - we - we are high in magnesium in the mare and high in aluminum in the highlands, which tends to confirm the anorthosite theory for the highlands. It gets rather exciting when the data starts adding up like that. And the Laser Altimeter has shown us that the back side of the Moon is indeed further from the center of the Moon than the front side. This had been a theory previously, and now you seem to have proved it with good solid data. Lots of things are beginning to fall into place, and - What a mission, that's all we can say.
Sounds pretty good so far, Karl. [Pause.] And I'm getting the SIM bay ready to have another shot of that.
Okay; we've been watching your maneuvering there. Have a good go at it.
Okay, Karl. [Pause.]
And the Rover boys at Hadley Rille have just had a tremendous session picking up all sorts of useful samples. The TV has been beautiful, the - All sorts of layering shows - in the - in the edge - in - in the - in the rille walls, and it's just very exciting.
Yeah, it sounds great.
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
Endeavour, this is Houston. How do you read? [Pause.]
Hello, Houston; Endeavour. Loud and clear.
Roger. Hear you likewise, loud and clear.
Endeavour, we'd like High Gain [Antenna], Auto.
Okay. It's in Auto.
Endeavour, we need Wide Beam for 5 seconds and then Narrow.
Endeavour, would you confirm that [the] X-ray [Spectrometer] is On, please. [Long pause.]
Endeavour, negative. It's - it's Off right now, Karl.
Roger. We'd like to have it On, please. [Pause.]
Rog. Going On. And sorry about that, Karl. I switched it one position thinking I had it On, but it was really in Off.
Righto. [Long pause.]
Al, another bulletin from Hadley Rille. The crew is back at the LM and starting their closeout. Just a few minutes ago, I saw them perform the philatelic wonder of the century.
So, it's all out now, huh?
Roger. [Long pause.]
And, Al, you'll be fascinated to know that Galileo's theory of gravitation has been confirmed. Dave just dropped a hammer and a feather and they hit the ground simultaneously.
Did you ask him what kind of a feather it was?
A falcon feather; yes, indeed.
How about that.
Al, we're up to the time to turn Pan Camera mode, Standby and Power, On.
Okay, Karl. [Long pause.]
Hey, we got a few special words also on water dumps - I guess you got one coming up in about 3 hours. They're anxious, in the future, that we don't run the waste water below 10 percent, because of possible malfunctions of the waste inlet valve, causing the suit exchanger to have oxygen breakthrough. So they'd appreciate your keeping a close eye on the - on waste dumps and - waste tank water quantity.
Okay, Karl. Will do.
Endeavour, Pan Camera Power, Off, now, please.
Power is coming Off. [Pause.]
Al, while you're eating up there, we've got the morning news. Are you in a situation to listen?
Okay; yeah, Karl. Glad to hear it.
Okay. It looks like we've avoided a steel strike down here. The steel workers and management agreed to a one-dollar per hour pay increase last night, boosting the straight time rate to 4.45 [dollars] per hour. Maybe we should take up that trade, huh?
Sure sounds like it.
The mercury dipped to 68 degrees yesterday, a record low for the first of August in Houston; we've had some real pleasant weather here. Too bad that either you or I haven't been - had a chance to get outside to enjoy it, huh?
Yeah, wait 'til next week, and we'll take a vacation.
You said it. Representative Edith Green, Democrat of Oregon, said, "Students and parents have been misled into thinking that a college degree is the only road to success." She advocated more vocational and technical training. On the sport scene, Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus combined their talents to score an easy 6-stroke victory in the National PGA Championship at Ligonier, Pa. They were 27 under par into 72 holes. The Astros smothered Montreal 8 to 1, but are still in the second division, 11 and a half games behind San Francisco. And here is a flash hot off the wire. It's only - it's only 200 years old, but very apropos of the leak that you sprang a couple of nights ago and also the big leak in the LM a couple of days ago. And the dispatch is as follows: The Endeavour, the original Endeavour, sprang a leak off the Great Barrier Reef at 11:00 pm on 11 June - on 11 June 1770. It was necessary for them to dump 40 tons of consumables to prevent sinking; then they sailed on with 40 feet of water in the hold. And this information comes to you courtesy of Honeysuckle Tracking Station in Australia.
Hey, that's very nice of Honeysuckle to tell us that. And I guess you ought to know that when we sprang a leak the other night, we didn't notice that any water had escaped. But when I made the plane change burn today, I found it, and it was sitting right in the middle of the after - of the heat shield.
[Laughter.] Very good. How much water was there? Can you estimate that?
Had a great big puddle of water.
A pint?
Oh, I'd estimate maybe a pint. Yeah.
Okey-doke.
Al, here's a little more of an update on the operation of the SIM bay experiments. The Gamma-ray, X-ray, and Alpha Particle Spectrometers are continuing to collect good scientific data. I already told you about the - the X-ray data showing regional differences very clearly. I went downstairs and looked at it myself, and it really is almost on a kilometer by kilometer basis. You can see, when you go from a highland in - into a mare; very interesting. The Laser Altimeter, as I already told you, has shown a lot of interesting things about the altitudes on the Moon. But - I'm not sure whether you know it or not - but it's essentially belly-up [i.e. dead, or not working] at the present time. We don't have much hope for it in the future. But the data that we did get out of it was very interesting and very good. And I guess that's about all I can say at the moment.
Roger, Karl. Thank you. That all sounds very interesting.
I'm not sure I told you previously...
And, Karl, you say - that the Laser Altimeter is just about gone now, huh?
Yeah. I think most people have admitted that it's not - it's giving us useless data. It has given us useless data on the last couple of attempts to use it, and we have very little hope for it now.
Incidentally, the Pan Camera is deteriorat - deteriorating to some extent. That V over H problem is getting - getting worse, not - it's - it's not completely bad yet, but we're getting a lower percentage of good frames, maybe 60 or 70 percent now. [Pause.]
And in connection with this deterioration of the Pan Camera, there is some feeling that as time goes by, it's getting poorer and poorer and that maybe we should occasionally pulse it on the self-test cycle to take just a - five frames on - on interesting regions as we go along in order to get the film used up before it really deteriorates to a greater degree. I guess we're asking for your opinion on that. Do you have any feeling about that?
No, but it sounds like a good idea. It seems to me like, good or bad, it'd be a shame to leave some unused film in the camera.
Roger. Well, we'll hang loose on that, and I think - I think really we ought to get a better evaluation down here as to how we - how to really use up that remaining film. People are thinking about it now.
Right. I agree.
Al, when I talked about pulsing the self test there, I - I didn't completely have the picture clear in my own mind. If the V over H sensor is giving us problems, this is one way to get around it, because, if we take our five frames in self test, we're essentially cutting the V over H sensor out of the circuit and taking a - a nominal [degree of] image motion compensation there, which would be better for us. So it's possible that, when we wind up using that film, that we'll have somebody sitting down in the lower equipment bay - probably after you're all three together again - pulsing that switch every 30 seconds.
Rog, Karl; understand. It sounds fine.
Al, we're ready to have Gamma-ray Gain Step back to center [Shield, On].
Okay; Going Shield, On. [Long pause.]
And it looks like you're going to have your fun this rev by having a good look at Aristarchus, huh?
Yeah, that's right, Karl. I've looked at Aristarchus a couple of times already in Earthshine, and I'll tell you even in Earthshine, that thing is spectacular. I can see Schröter's Valley; it shows up very white, and the crater Aristarchus with the rays extending to the west are all - they're all very, very visible.
Roger. [Long pause.]
And I'm just at the terminator now.
We copy.
We see you moving over to the antisolar point to take some gegenschein photos. It's about time we solved that problem, Al. Take some good ones. That Nikon camera ought to do a good job for us.
Well, we're all set up here, Karl; and, if the Nikon will do it, we'll get them.
Very good. [Pause.]
Did you see the seven rilles of Aristarchus, Al? [Pause.]
Certainly did. Wouldn't miss 'em. [Pause.] Not much to relate at this time as far as Aristarchus - or descriptions - visual observations are concerned in Earthshine. As a matter of fact, it was so close to the terminator that I wasn't really dark-adapted enough to see much except the very light colored crater Aristarchus and its ejecta pattern and a very light-colored Schröter's Valley and - which kind of surprised me. Schröter's Valley has about the same lightness as the interior of Aristarchus itself.
Rog. Didn't see any red spots up there, huh?
No, I sure didn't. [Pause.]
Al, the time line on the surface is going very well now, and they're just about to repress.
Oh, very good.
Hey, as I look back over towards Tsio - Tsiolkovsky, I see your new orbit is taking you over the crater Alden. Do me a personal favor and sneak in a shot of it, if you can.
Okay.
Houston, Endeavour.
Endeavour, go ahead.
Okay. You ready for me to turn the Data Systems, Off? [Pause.]
Roger, Al. If you've secured the SIM bay experiments, we're ready for the Datum [means Data] System, Off.
Okay, we're secured now. [Long pause.]
Okay, Al; as you go around the corner, all of your systems are looking in good shape. Have fun with the gegenschein photos.
Okay, Karl; hope so, and see you around the other side.
Righto.
Endeavour, Houston, Standing by.
Houston, Endeavour's on.
Okay, Al. Good morning.
Is it morning, Ed?
Yeah, it's morning down here, Al. Al, we've got a couple of changes for you. We're going to delete the P22 because the LM crew needs a little extra time, and substitute a P24 from the Command Module for it. If you've already got your camera on the sextant, sorry about that. If not, delete it.
Okay. I've already got it on, but that's no problem.
Okay. We'll give you a P24 landmac - landmark track PAD whenever you're ready.
Okay, go ahead.
Okay. Your target's the LM. T-1, 169:34:08; T-2, 38:15; TCA, 40:38; T-3, 41:06; south 3 nautical miles; and your attitude will have to change a little, Al. We're using roll, pitch and yaw of 000, 350/231 and 000. Noun 89, latitude 26.107; longitude over 2, plus 01.828; altitude, minus 013.26; and, at 169:25 in your Flight Plan, change the R2 of Noun 78 to minus 080.00.
Al, I gave you a wrong time [for the R2 change]...
Roger, Ed; copy...
169:15 is the time where that should be. I don't see it there.
Okay, Ed. I have - I have that one in the Flight Plan now; at 169:15, R2 is minus 068.00.
That's affirm; and we're substituting minus 080.00.
Understand; substitute for that, minus 080.00.
That's affirm, Al.
Okay; here goes the landmark tracking PAD. P24 on the LM, T-1, 169:34:08; T-2 is 38:15, 40:38, 41:06; that's 3 miles south; roll, pitch, and yaw are 000, 350/231, 000. Noun 89's are plus 26.107, plus 01.828, minus 013.26; and I've changed R2 of the DAP load.
Okay, Al; and we will need marks on them of course.
Roger.
Be back with you in a little while.
Oh, okay.
Endeavour, Houston.
Houston, Endeavour; go ahead.
Al, it seems like we had a - error on that last PAD I read you. The altitude should be minus 001.33. Understand?
Understand the altitude should be minus 001.33.
That's affirm. Sorry about that.
Endeavour, Houston. Omni Charlie, please.
Omni Charlie.
Endeavour, Houston. On your High Gain [Antenna], go Wide and Manual, please. [Pause.]
Roger. Wide and Narrow - Wide and Manual.
Thank you, Al.
Okay. Any angles you want me to put in?
Endeavour and Falcon, Houston. We're going to delete the VHF check at this pass, just to give you a little more time. [Long pause.]
Roger. Endeavour's got the VHF set up anyway.
That's fine. We just won't - bother the LM with it.
Okay. You might tell them though, I've got my - if you want to check out the rendezvous radar, I've got the transponder on.
Al, you're in the mud. You'll have to try me on that one again.
Okay. Just wanted to let you know that I've also got the rendezvous transponder on.
Okey-doke. Thank you Al.
Endeavour, Houston. One minute to T-1.
Roger. Thank you.
30 seconds to T-2. [Pause.]
10 seconds to T-2, Endeavour.
Roger.
Okay, Houston; Endeavour. Through with tracking, but I'm not sure they're very good marks.
Okay, Al; we understand. High Sun angle may have made it difficult. [Pause.]
Yeah, I seemed to have a lot of interference in the sextant from the landmark, by the sight - part of the optics.
Understand, Al. [Long pause.]
Al, do you think you saw him at all?
Yeah. I think the first couple of marks were on him, Ed, but I couldn't hold him.
Okey-doke.
I kept - I kept losing him.
Endeavour, Houston. In the blind, give us the best Omni[directional antenna], please. [Long pause.]
En - Endeavour, Houston. Best Omni, please. [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. In the blind, best Omni, please. [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. Best Omni. [No answer.]
Hello, Endeavour. Best Omni, please. [No answer.] [Long pause.]
Endeavour, Houston. Give us best Omni, please.
I... [Long pause.]
Ende...
Endeavour, Houston. Best Omni. [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. Best Omni. [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. Best Omni, please. [Long pause.]
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read? [Long pause.]
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read? [Pause.]
Endeavour, Houston. In the blind. Best Omni, please. [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. Best Omni, please. [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read? [Long pause.]
Endeavour, Houston. How do you read? [Long pause.]
Endeavour, Houston. [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. In the blind. How do you read? [No answer.]
Endeavour, Houston. Give us your best Omni, please. [Long pause.]
Endeavour, Houston. In the blind. I'm going to give you a lift-off time: 171:37:22.36. We'll uplink you at AOS since we have no contact. And, Endeavour; Houston. TPI, 172:29:39.00. I'll repeat, lift-off, 171:37:22.36; TPI, 172:29:39.00. CSM weight for your DAP, 35995.
And, Al, if you read. Let's come around to AOS. Trying to get comm. We'll have a lot of work to do.
Endeavour, Houston. One minute to LOS.
Roger, Houston; Endeavour. And did you get the gyro torquing angles, Ed?
Al, we haven't had you for the last 20 minutes. Did you get my uplinks - or rather my PADs up?
Negative.
Okay. Let me give you one quickly. You've got 40 seconds to LOS. TIG is 171:37:22.36. TPI, 172:29:39.00. Your CSM weight 35995. I'm going to lose you in about 15 seconds. We'll get all your uplinks and the rest of the PADs at AOS.
