And, Apollo 15; Houston. We'd like that Verb 49 maneuver, so we can pick up High Gain, please.
Roger. We just did it, Bob.
Thank you.
Hey, Houston. Take a look at the DSKY. I think those are the numbers you gave us.
Roger, 15. Those are the numbers. Looks good, thank you.
And, 15; Houston. We'd like Gamma-ray Gain Step, On, up, three clicks. Over.
Okay. Gain Step, On, up, three clicks.
Apollo 15, Houston.
Go ahead, Bob.
Roger. We'd like to move that "Verb 49 maneuver to lunar surface photo attitude" that you'll find at 225:30 in the Flight Plan. We'd like to move that up to 225:24. Over.
Roger. Understand; move the "Verb 49 maneuver" to 225:24.
Roger.
Apollo 15, Houston.
Houston, 15. Go.
Ah, Rog. Be advised we'll be monitoring your maneuver here in case you get in your gimbal lock. And the High Gain angles in case you lose antenna lock in the new attitude will be pitch of minus 45 and yaw of 024. Over.
Roger. Understand pitch minus 45 and yaw 024, if we lose it.
Roger.
And thanks for watching it for us, Bobby.
And, 15, if one of you has time, I have a few more Flight Plan updates for you.
Okay, Houston. Stand by one. Go ahead, Bob.
Okay. The pitch and yaw angles for the P20 - P52 attitude at 226:00 is: pitch of minus 37; yaw of 322.
Understand at the P52 attitude, it's pitch minus 37, yaw 322.
Roger. At 226:15, we're changing that Verb 49 maneuver attitude to the following coordinates, 327, 143, 055.
Roger. Copy the change to the Verb 49 maneuver that occurs at 226:15 to 327, 143 and 055.
Roger; and the High Gain angles will be pitch 13, yaw 212.
Roger. Pitch 13, yaw 212.
Roger. Stand by.
And, 15, we're observing yaw of 61 degrees right now.
15, Houston. We have 65 degrees yaw.
Rog, Bob. We're watching.
Okay, three more Flight Plan updates, Jim, if you're ready.
Go ahead, Bob.
Okay, at 226:22, on - it'll be a line above the line that says "X-ray, On." The new line that will be added will be "X-ray, Off, for 1 second; then". Over.
Understand. The new line added above "X-ray, On", and it'll read "X-ray, Off, 1 second; then".
Roger, that's good. At 227:32, we'll add a line on top of the "Verb 48" line that says "X-ray, Standby".
Rog. Understand. At 227:32, "X-ray to Standby."
Roger. And at 227:57, on a line with the Mass Spec. on it, we'll have - we'll change that "Discriminator, High" to "Discriminator, Low".
Understand. "Discriminator, Low" instead of "Discriminator, High".
And that completes the update for now.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 15.
Roger, 15. Go.
Rog. Do you have any best guess on MCC-5 yet - whether or not we'll have one?
Stand by. It's not going to be very large.
Well, the question is whether or not we have to prepare for it. And we have another request. We'd like to reschedule the UV photos presently scheduled for 239:10 to some other time, primarily because of the stowage in here. We've got most of the UV equipment already stowed beneath the rocks in prep for the EVA, and - to go in and go out of the stowage container takes a fair amount of time. And we'd like to reschedule that if it's possible.
Rog. assume you mean after the EVA?
Rog.
Okay. Stand by.
Okay. This is a - this is a crowded fellow up here.
You guys shouldn't have brought so many rocks back.
Well, I guess every once in a while we wonder.
But we don't wonder very long.
Okay, Davy. First of all, no problem. We can delay those UV photos until after the EVA. Second, right now midcourse 5 looks like 2 feet per second, and we do want to do it. Over.
Okay, thank you. That's a couple of quick answers; appreciate it. That - that will help us in our planning.
Okay. That is only a preliminary estimate on that midcourse 5 though.
That's okay. That tells us the difference between SPS and RCS kind of burns.
Oh; Rog.
15; Houston. One more thing if it's convenient.
Go ahead.
Go ahead, Bob.
Okay. At your convenience, we'd like to verify or check the Primary Accumulator fill valve, On, until the primary accumulator quantity - that's for the glycol loop - is up to 50 to 55 percent. This is the result of a review of the EVA checklist from tomorrow. It assumes that this has already checked and that we're at the 50 to 55 percent level, so we'd like this check - you could do it tonight when you're getting ready for sleep or something.
Okay, we'll do it right now. That's planning ahead.
Copy.
Okay, Houston. Our Prim. Accumulator quantity is now about 51 percent.
Rog. We copy; thank you.
And we filled it from about 45.
Thank you.
And if you have any other goodies you think we ought to check over, might as well do it this evening.
Rog, Dave. That's the only goodie we came upon - Stan - Stand by.
Okay, 15. That's the only goodie we had from the review of the EVA checklist for tomorrow. That - that's the only one we could find. An extra goodie that we'd like this evening sometime; if you fellows intend to use the vacuum cleaner - is for you to give us a cue when you turn it on, so we can check and watch the currents. They saw a funny on an AC bus - or an extra current load on an AC bus when they think you were using the vacuum cleaner then. They'd like to verify that by watching it again when you use the vacuum cleaner.
Okay. Well, we've been using it quite often on and off.
Okay. Just sometime when you use it, if you give us a cue as you turn it on, that would help.
Okay, I - I guess we don't see any need for it this evening. And we could check it out if you'd like...
No, no.
we cleaned up pretty well. The cabin's nice and clean and I...
Rog, Dave. No, that's just a callout. The next time you happen to get around to feeling dirty and want to use the vacuum cleaner, give us a call if you would please.
Okay. We'll do it.
Houston, 15. Did you get the P52 numbers?
Rog. We have all your P52 numbers, Al.
Al, we know that one of them wasn't five balls.
Say again.
Rog. We noticed one of those didn't have five balls on it.
Rog. Did you get the torquing angles on both the P52's.
Rog. Yeah, we got them.
Okay. Thank you.
And, Endeavour; Houston. Over.
Endeavour, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston; Endeavour.
Roger. If one of you guys has time, we have what may or may not be the last iteration on troubleshooting the Pan Camera this afternoon. Over.
Okay. Have at it.
Okay, step one; we'd like to know - you - you can give us these afterwards, but the first step is to determine the status of the Service Module Sector 1 AC 2, circuit breakers on panel 181. Those are three circuit breakers. Number two is to determine the status of the Pan Camera Mode switch. Number three, after these have been done, Pan Camera Mode, Standby; Power, On, talkback barber pole for 2 seconds, then gray, and then Stereo. Number four, Pan Camera Mode, Operate, talkback barber pole for 2 seconds, then gray. Number five, operate Pan Camera until MSFN cues, or until the beginning of the sleep period. And number six, on MSFN cue, Pan Camera Mode to Standby; and after one minute, Pan Camera Power, Off. Over.
Okay, Bob. You clipped the first part of number 5. Say again, please.
Roger. Number 5 says operate the Pan Camera until the ground gives you a cue or until the beginning of the sleep period. Then we'll give you a cue.
Okeydoke. Stand by a minute.
Okay, Houston. SIM Sec AC 2 circuit breakers, three, Closed, verified. And the Pan Camera Mode switch is in Standby. So would you like us to go to step 3?
Endeavour, Endeavour, this is Houston. Roger. That appears to be the problem. Stand by and I'll see what we want to do. Do we...
Okay.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, this is Houston. Roger. Press on with step 3 from that point when convenient.
Okay. Going Power, On, 2 seconds, gray, and then stereo.
Okay. Power, On, and we have a continuous barber pole.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. Roger. Understand, continuous barber pole.
Why don't you just tell us what next? Do you want to go to Stereo or not?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, stand by.
Okay.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, press on with Stereo, please.
Roger. It's Stereo now, still barber pole.
And I guess we'll go to step 4 now. Okay?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. Roger.
Okay. Operate, still barber pole.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, Houston. Roger. We understand; it's still barber pole, and we'll give you a cue when to turn it off. Okay? Thank you.
Roger. Be standing by.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, we've succeeded in using up the last of the film in the Pan Camera. You may now go Pan Camera Mode, Standby; and, after 1 minute, Pan Camera Power, Off, per step 6. Over.
Okay, understand. Pan Camera to Standby, and 1 minute, Off.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, Roger.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, Houston. We're going to take down the network line here for 20 seconds. We'll be back up with you after that.
All righty.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Over.
Houston, 15. Go ahead.
Roger, 15. We see you maneuvering to PTC, and we're requesting that you not maneuver to PTC until the SIM bay covers are closed. I don't know whether they're closed at the moment or not.
Roger. They're closed up.
Understand. And if you fellows...
We're just following down through the Flight Plan.
Good. We weren't sure where you were. If you fellows are through eating, we have two or three calls to send up to you, when it's convenient.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. We can go to T-stop with the Mapping Camera now. And that would be - to follow the checklist on pages 1-39, steps - section 6, 7 and 8; first one being Mapping Camera, On to Off, 30 seconds, and then Standby. Over.
Houston, 15.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Go.
Houston, 15. Okay...
Apollo...
Listen, Bob. Is this the T-stop on the Mapping Camera photo PAD at 224:10?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, that's a Roger.
Okay, Houston. Go with the rest of the updates to the Flight Plan.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Roger. We - want to remind you, when you go into PC - TC, to follow the block in the Flight Plan for the usage of quads, rather than the section in - in the checklist where it calls out to disable all jets on two adjacent quads. This is to avoid contamination of the Mass Spec. It's just to remind you to follow that little box in the Flight Plan. Over.
You mean that little box on page 3-343?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, that's a Roger.
Okay. We'll follow that little box just like it's in the Flight Plan. Go ahead with your - the rest of your updates.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. Roger. On - one discussion here on the UV photos which we're delaying until after the EVA, it looks like the last chance to get these photos is at 246 dash 15, which is about 3 or 4 hours after the nominal end of the EVA. We'd like to propose that for your consideration. Over.
That's just fine. We'll do it, 246:15. Thank you.
Okay, Bob. Do you have anything else to add to the Flight Plan.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Roger. One more item we just got is a request that now that the covers on the X-ray are closed, we're requesting X-ray, On, for 10 minutes and then Off. Over.
Okay, X-ray, On, for 10 minutes and then Off.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, the posit - the last position should be Standby rather than Off. Over.
Roger. Standby.
Okay, Houston. The X-ray is On, and we'll turn it Off in 10 minutes. Anything else?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. That's a Standby in 10 minutes. I believe you understand that, Dave, anyway. And I believe that the next...
Rog.
thing we will want from you is a call when you're ready to go to sleep. And we will verify all systems at that time so we can get a solid goodnight, rather than tagging on, again like last night.
Roger that.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. We see you cycling through the DAP. We suggest you need a zero in R2 to get B/D roll. Over.
Houston, 15.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. Go.
Hey, Bob, you didn't update the load in the P20 for PTC. Was that meant to be updated to.375 or shall we leave it at.35?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. Let's keep it at.375.
Understand you want the Flight Plan updated to.375.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. That's a Roger.
Roger. Thank you. We got the update.
Houston, Apollo 15.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Go ahead.
Yes, Bob. We're trying to retract the Mapping Camera. But the time has been well exceeded and we still have the barber pole indication.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. Stand by.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. We'd just as soon you didn't spin up quite yet. We still think the rates are a little high. Over.
Okay, Houston. We'll wait on your cue then.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Concerning the Mapping Camera retraction problem, the question is did you get a barber pole during the Alpha/X-ray cover procedure? Over.
You ought to amplify your question there a little bit, Bob. You mean when we are - operating the covers?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Jim, the question basically is, did the barber pole, did the talkback function properly when you just closed the alpha/X-ray covers? Over.
Yes. Dave said it works fine.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Jim, stand by on that. We got your last answer, and they're working on it.
Okay. I think I'll take the - go out of the Retract position on the switch and just wait for your word.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. That sounds good to me, Jim.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. We'd like to hold off on PTC a little bit longer until we get this Mapping Camera business straightened out. And, Jim, for some troubleshooting on this, we'd like to have you check on panel 181, the Main A circuit breaker, Closed, and the Deploy/Retract switch in the Retract position. And on panel 278, the Deploy Main A circuit breaker, Closed. Over.
Those two circuit breakers and the switches are verified, Bob, Closed.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15. Copy.
And the presleep checklist: been no medication today. Onboard readouts are Bat C, 37; pyro Bat A, 37.3; pyro Bat B, 37.3. On the RCS, it's 56, 55, 54, and 55. And I guess, after we get PTC squared away, we'll give you the E-memory dump.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Copy the crew status and the onboard readout. And stand by on the E-mod; we may ask you for that before PTC, but we'll be back with you on that in a minute.
Houston, 15.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Go.
Rog. Un - unless you got a solution for the camera now, why don't we troubleshoot it in the morning and get on with our evening powerdown. Okay?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. That's a Roger. We've just come to that conclusion ourselves down here. We're ready for an E-mod dump before the start of PTC, please.
Okay. It's on the way.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. One last attempt on the Mapping Camera. We suggest you try Mapping Camera doors, Open, then Retract, and then doors, Close, if successful on the retract. And you can do that while - after you start up PTC, if you like.
Roger. We've already attempted to do that, Bob.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Roger. You're ahead of Building 45. And, Apollo 15, Apollo 15, we have a good E-mod dump.
Houston, 15. How do the rates look now?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. Your rates look good. You're Go for PTC.
Okay. We'll try.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. As soon as you configure the Mass Spec - Multiplier, Low; Discriminator, Low; Experiment, On; Ion Source, On; et cetera, you're Go for sleep. Then no more comments from the ground until morning.
Roger.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, Houston is out for the evening.
Don't go too far out, though.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, our ever watchful eye will be on you while you sleep.
Very good.
Houston, 15. initial rates.
Apollo 15, Apollo 15; Houston. You called just as we lost and locked onto the high - onto the Omni.
Okay, Bob. Just wanted to know how initial rates of PTC looked?
Apollo 15, Apollo 15, initial rates look good. We'll be keeping an eye on it though for you, Al.
Okay, Bob. It just didn't look like I got quite as much rate when I entered on that as I expected.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Houston, 15. Go.
Roger, 15. Would you believe that we have one more call on the Pan Camera. We do not show Pan Camera Power to Off, please, and unfortunately, that means that we might heat up the film too much. So we would like Pan Camera Power to Off. And guys, as long as you're down there, would you mind trying Mapping Camera, Retract once more. 15...
Sure.
we see a certain rise in temperature there which may mean that if it was frozen; it'll improve. And we do not see any - the Mass Spec. configuration yet. And a progress report on your PTC says it's about 60/40, but it'll - it will last the night.
Houston, it doesn't look like the Mapping Camera is going to come back in. What's the problem if it's left out?
15, Houston. Would you believe we've just determined that it doesn't seem to be a problem if it stays out overnight.
Great. Then I guess we can call it quits for the night. Okay?
I sure hope so.
Okay, good night.
15, we don't have TM on you right now. Is the Mass Spec. taken care of?
Rog. The Mass Spec's taken care of. There's one switch out of position. And the Mapping Camera is going to go to Off.
Roger. Copied, Dave. We'll try again.
Okay.
Apollo 15, Houston. In the blind, no need to reply. Our Pan Camera data still shows Power, On. This is the middle switch in the bottom row. The Power Boost switch should be in the center, Off position. No need to reply. Over.
