Good morning, Endeavour. This is Apollo Control in Houston, Texas, tuning the band [i.e. about to play some "wake-up music" to the crew]. Over. [Long pause.]
Good morning, tuning the band. This is Endeavour. Go. [Pause.]
Roger. Good morning, Endeavour. This is Houston with CSM consumables and a few good words about your Flight Plan, when you're ready. [Pause.]
Just stand by one.
Okay, Dave. And you troops sure start the day early up there, I must say. [Pause.]
Yeah, seems that way, doesn't it?
Okay, Houston. We've located the Flight Plan. Go ahead with your updates. [Pause.]
Endeavour, this is Houston. Were you calling? [Pause.]
Rog, Joe. We've located the Flight Plan. Go ahead with your update.
Okay, Dave. I guess, let me start with the CSM consumables. At 235 plus 30, RCS total, 41; quad A: 43, 40, 38, 41; H2 tank 1, 41, 40, 36; O2 tank 1, 56, 58, 45. And the only immediate other thing I have for you, Dave, is a comment on the maneuver at 236 hours - about the Gamma-ray boom retract. We'd like for you to confirm - I'll be back when...
15, this is Houston. How do you read?
Last I heard was gamma-ray. Go ahead.
Okay. The rest of that mysterious transmission is essentially the following, Dave. We've got a funny in that gamma-ray experiment and - so we're going to - to want to modify the use of it a little bit today. It should be no major imposition, but the Flight Plan calls out for the Gamma-ray boom to be retracted at 236 hours. We'd like to modify that by saying, turn the Gain Step, Shield, Off, at that time and we'll want you to retract it about 10 minutes later. We'll give you a cue for that. Over. [Pause.]
Okay. Gain Step, Shield, Off, at 236 and stand by for your cue for retraction.
That's correct, Dave. I've got a few other good things here, but there's no hurry on any of them. [I would] be willing to stand by, if you wanted to get squared away and give me a call later, or whatever you'd like to do. It's your preference.
Well, let's go ahead, Joe. We're getting squared away up here.
Okay. If you have the Flight Plan then, let me add the following. At 236 plus 45, add the step, "X-ray to On". [Pause.] And then turning over several pages...
Roger. 236:45; X-ray, On.
Okay. And turning over several pages to 241 plus 25. [Pause.]
Go.
Roger. After the step "O2 heaters 1, 2 and 3 to Auto", add "O2 tanks 1 and 2, 50 Watt Heaters, Main B, 2, to Open." And "O2 tank 3, 50 Watt Heater, Main A, 1, to Open." Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. 241:25; O2 Heater - or O2 Tank 1 and 2, 50 Watt Heaters, Main B to Open, and O2 Tank Heater - They're 50 Watt also? Main A, 1, Open? [Long pause.]
Stand by, Dave. I'm sorry about this one. Stand by.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay, Endeavour. Let me try that again. Had a typographical error down here. It should read "O2 Tank 1, 50 Watt Heater, Main B, 1, Open"; and "O2 Tanks 2 and 3, 50 Watt Heaters, Main A, 2, Open". Over. [Pause.]
Okay. O2 Tank 1, 50 Watt Heater, Main B, 1, Open; and Tanks 2 and 3, 50 Watt Heaters, Main A, 2, Open.
That's correct, Dave. I apologize for the slow start there. Now I've got some DAP load changes that cover the times from about 247 hours to 252 hours. And - the change is apparently because of a mis - of a mistake in the Flight Plan you have on board that we, in the meantime, have caught down here. And - so there are several deletions and additions during that time. The first one starts at 247 plus 28.
Go ahead, I've got it.
Okay. Delete your Verb 48, 11111 and X1111, and add - stand by a second. [Pause.]
That's twice. [Pause.]
I'll be very careful from here on. Stand by. [Long pause.]
Okay, D.R. [i.e. David Randolph Scott] I'm ready to try it again. You've deleted at 247:28 the line with all the funny number ones, and you're supposed to delete, in the DAP load column, also that same entry. It's in the time column, I guess. And then turn the page.
Yeah. Rog.
Okay. Go to 248 hours, on the next page, and in the notes column, change the DAP load status to read 11101. And the rest is the same. And this DAP load status continues through the PTC until 251 hours. [Pause.] And the next change is at 251 hours and 4 minutes. [Long pause.]
Okay. 251:04, and I got the other three changes. Go ahead.
Okay. Delete the Verb 48 line and the DAP load over in the time column there. [Pause.]
Okay.
And the next change is at 251:47. Delete the Verb 48 line and the DAP load in its corresponding time column. [Pause.]
Okay. And I guess over in the notes column, we're still carrying 11101. Right?
That's affirm, Dave. And starting at 252 hours, your DAP load status should read 111 - Stand by. [Long pause.]
Okay. Let me try again. Starting... [Long pause.]
Okay, starting at 252 plus 00 hours, in the notes column, the DAP load status should read 11101 times 1111 [means 11101 X1111]. And this should be carried through the rest period until 261 hours. Over.
Okay, Joe. You were saying something there about 252:30, as we lost comm. I got the entry at 252:00. Was there any change at 252:30?
Negative, Dave. The change at 252:00 should just be continued through until 261 hours. And that's just the DAP - DAP load status - should be changed correspondingly through until that time. [Pause.]
Okay. I see. And then we're - we're just 11101 all the way.
That's correct. [Long pause.]
Okay. Go ahead with your next. [Pause.]
Dave, that's all I've got for the time being. And I think I'd be afraid to go ahead much further, if you're really counting those times. Maybe I should start keeping score on you as well.
[Laughter.] Okay. [Pause.]
We're happy for the time being. We're - we're standing by for a crew status report at your convenience. And we'll be watching for the Gain Step Shield to come Off.
Okay. We'll get right back with you in about 5 or 10.
Thank you.
Endeavour, this is Houston. We'd like for you to retract the Gamma-ray boom for us, please, and we'll be watching for your torquing angles. Also, if you'd like some news reporting in the background, I have the morning news here, if you're interested in that at all. Over. [Pause.]
Rog. Gamma-ray going to Retract now, and stand by on the news. [Pause.]
Okay. Roger. You can use that for background for the P52, I guess. President Nixon in effect declared US responsibility for offensive ground combat operations in Vietnam at an end. With the draft still in limbo, Selective Service went ahead today with the lottery to determine the order in which next year's nineteen-year-olds will face military service. Secretary of State William P. Rogers plans to go to the United Nat - Nations to push for a more energetic international relief effort for East Pakistan today. The Senate Armed Services Committee completed action on a 21 billion dollar military buying bill that meets most Nixon Administration weapons requests. President Nixon and his family will fly to Manchester, New Hampshire, and then to a private island in Maine this weekend, when visits to New Hampshire also are planned by four Democratic presidential hopefuls and Republican challenger Rep - Paul N. McClosky, Jr. Predicted weather for recovery day is 2,000 feet scattered, 10 miles vis, and waves approaching 6 feet. Wind is north by northeast, 18 knots. I have a long list of baseball scores here, which I'll just glance over. In the American League, New York beat Cleveland 7 to 3. I've had a local request for the Dodgers who lost to the Astros 2 to 0. The American Classic Golf Tournament starts today at the Firestone Country Club in Akron, Ohio. And the winner will get $30,000 dollars. Sounds to me like the pay's pretty good, and I expect the hours are short. The US Pan American Team went on a fantastic Gold Medal spree yesterday, winning 17 - rather 16 of the 17 medals at stake. The only one the Americans escaped getting was the Gold Medal in weight lifting. And the total in the games, which are being held in Colombia, is 78 for the United States, 36 of them gold, and 51 for Cuba, 12 of them are gold. And I'll end with a story, comparable only to that incredible contest between the Apollo 15 All Stars and the North American Rockets. Last night in the Texas League, 21-year-old right-hander Tom Walker, pitching far Dallas-Fort Worth team, pitched a 15-inning, no-run, no-hit game against Albuquerque. He retired the last 21 men in a row. Only four Albuquerque players got on base and all of them were on walks. Walker got the first 18 batters out before he walked the first one. He threw 153 pitches in the game, and the no-hitter is an all-time record in the Texas League and may very well be an all-time record in Major League Baseball. Walker's manager told him that if he did not win the game by the end of the 15th inning, he was going to have to pull him out. Walker said his arm felt a little tired, but he felt okay, understandably. Like doing three EVAs I expect. And that's all the news for - for this morning.
Boy! It sounds like he's as good as our very own Blinky.
That may well be, Dave. I - That never occurred to me.
At least the equal thereof.
Rog. At least almost.
Endeavour. We've copied the torquing angles. Thank you. And, Dave, if you can get a volunteer to work on the Mapping Camera for us, we'd like to try to pull that Mapping Camera in and get the covers closed in preparation for the EVA. We're not quite sure the position that the camera's in right now and the procedure I'll - can read up step by step, but it's basically to open the covers, try to extend the camera, we'll confirm the extension, and then we'll have you retract the camera and ultimately retract the covers. And I'll be standing by for your advice on this. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, Joe. We'll see if we have time to work on that. But, it's my understanding we do not have to have it retracted for the EVA. [Long pause.]
Dave. That's my understanding, too. I think - the main reason - for wanting to do this, if time is available and it's, o - and it's only - would be a nicety - would be it - gives us a warm feeling regarding the film. [Long pause.]
Dave, just to complete that last statement, you're correct. We don't have to have that device retracted for the EVA. But, apparently, it - it gives the film people a nice feeling regarding their film not getting too cold or too hot. That's the reason for that.
Okay. Well, let us see if we can get to it.
Rog. Just give a whistle.
Okay. And we sort of flip-flopped that P23 and eat period so that we can take advantage of our setup for eating and all. And we'll get on with P23 as soon as we finish breakfast.
Sounds good.
Apollo 15, this is Houston. All other things being equal, troops, we'd prefer that you do the P23 before you begin the eat period, because it gives us an hour of pointed X-ray data during your eat period. [Pause.]
Okay, Joe; but I guess the inequality is the stowage situation in here and assuring that we can get properly prepared for the EVA. So - we'll start the P23 in probably about - oh - 5 minutes or so, because we're almost through eating. But we sort of have to take advantage of our configuration in here in order to stay with the time line later on.
That's fine, Dave. We understand, thank you.
Endeavour this is Houston. [Pause.]
Go ahead.
Roger. I've got some information about your midcourse [correction opportunity] 5, which is scheduled to come up here [at 238:46]. We have a firm decision that there will not be a midcourse 5 maneuver required and the numbers behind that are a Gamma of minus 6.69 [degrees, with respect to the local horizon at Entry Interface]; your vacuum perigee is 18.4 [nautical miles, 34.1 km], and the midcourse 5 correction that we're showing now would be 3/10ths of a foot per second. The corresponding midcourse 7 correction runs at about 1.8 feet per second. And, based on that new information, we're wondering if you're still interested in doing the UV photography at its scheduled time, or waiting until after the - the EVA. And we're also wondering what your choice will be on the solar corona photography. Over.
Okay. That's pretty fantastic guidance, ain't it? Let us - take another look at the Flight Plan here and come right back at you.
Okay, Dave; fine. And no hurry on - on the - on that decision. We would like the Gamma-ray [Gain] Step Shield, On, now, please. [Pause.]
Okay. Gamma-ray Gain Step, On.
Thank you. [Pause.]
And, Joe, I guess on the corona photography, mag R has been ex - expended. As far as the UV, is not so much a problem of time. It's a problem of stowage. It's stowed way down deep in one of Endeavour's lockers here and to get at it requires quite a bit of manipulation of bags. And that's the reason we wanted to delay that if it was possible.
Okay, Dave. We understand that. And that - that sounds like it's a far more reason - reasonable to delay that. The timing's not critical as far as we're concerned. We just wanted to give you a balanced workday.
Okay; fine. We don't mind loading up a little after the EVA, because it really saves us a lot of work in the long run. And you might wonder why we didn't put - the UV stuff somewhere else, but there's just nowhere else to put it but in it's - in its own proper little spot.
No, we understand. Thank you.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Okay. Have a crew status report for you, and you can have the docs take a look at the LMP bio[medical], see if that's acceptable.
Okay. [Pause.]
Ready to copy?
Go ahead.
Okay. 7 hours sleep apiece, and PRDs 25028, 23193, 08031.
Okay, Dave. Thank you. And we see that we've got the X-ray going. We'd like for you to change the setting on the Gain Step. Give us a one-click increase, which'll move us from - the position 7 back to position 1. Over.
Okay. You've got a one-click increase.
Okay. We see it, Dave, and Jim's Bio looks clean to us down here. Thank you.
Okay.
Endeavour. Give us six clicks on the Gamma-ray Gain [Step] switch, please.
Okay. Six clicks.
Endeavour, this is Houston.
Houston, Endeavour. Go.
Rog, Dave. A couple of miscellaneous items I'd like to ask you about. First of all, the trench sends their congratulations to whoever's doing the P23 for us. The errors are less than one sigma - and they're awarding the honorary Vasco da Gama Navigation Award for excellence in this. Secondly, we're puzzling over your remark about magazine Romeo [the high-speed black and white film magazine], which you reported to us was exhausted. And we're wondering if you just read - the frame number from the mag and, if so, what it read. Over. [Long pause.]
Yeah. Joe, this is Al. The last reading of Romeo, I think, was 110. [Pause.]
Okay, Al. Thank you. And were you doing the P23 for us?
Si. [Pause.]
Okay. I'll tell you a little something about Vasco da Gama later on. Another easy item here; you're going to come up on a bat[tery] charge - I guess Bat B charge - starting at 239 hours, and we'd like to delay that to 244 hours, please.
Okay. Delay the Bat B charge to 244. And be advised - you've got to know that we've got best navigator in trans-Earth lunar space up here.
At least one of them, I'm sure.
In fact, the only one.
Rog. We copy. And, finally, I'd like to get a volunteer to take a whack at this - configuring the Map Camera properly. And it's going to be a few short steps, and if it works, great; we'll have a lot of good engineering data regarding the thermal properties of that beauty. And if it doesn't work, we're just going to turn it off and leave it. And - when somebody's ready to do that, I'll go through the steps. There are not too many.
Okay, Joe. Somebody'll be ready in just a few minutes.
Rog. Thank you, Dave.
Okay, Houston; Endeavour. If you want to try your camera techniques again, let's give it a whirl.
Okay, Endeavour. I've got five steps here, and I think it's easiest for me just to read them to you and have you carry them out rather than copying them down. And the first one - first two steps...
Rog.
...on panel 181, verify Logic Power, Main A circuit breaker, Closed. [Pause.]
Okay, verified.
And same panel, verify Logic Power switches, two of them, to Deploy/Retract.
Verified.
Step 3 on panel 278, the Experiment Covers Deploy circuit breaker, Main A to Closed. [Pause.]
Verified. Closed.
Step 4 on panel 230, the Map Camera, verify Standby.
Verified to Standby.
Okay, and coming up on step 5 and let me read through this - and - I'll stand by for questions then, if there are some. We want the Map Camera Track to Extend; and, simultaneously, we want the Experiment Cover Map Camera/Laser Altimeter to Open, and we want those two things done simultaneously.
Okay. Understand. Go to Extend and open the Covers, Map Camera/Laser simultaneously.
Roger. And a note on that - I guess - on the Map Camera Track to Extend, we'll be watching that for about between 4 and 5 minutes or until you get a gray talkback on there. And - we think this is going to clear up our problem and if it doesn't, we're just going to turn the whole ball of wax off and go ahead and do the EVA as normally planned. Over.
Okay, Joe. In three seconds, we'll execute.
Rog, Dave. We're watching. [Long pause.]
Well, I got a gray on the Mapping Camera. How 'bout that.
Okay; stand by. [Pause.]
Dave, do you have a gray on the door as well?
That's affirm, but I did not get a barber pole on the door. It just stayed gray.
Okay; that's good. That just means that it was open already.
Right.
Okay. Then that - that's worked out fine. Apparently, we were having a temperature problem with that thing before, and we're back in business just like normal. We'd like now the Mapping Camera Track to Retract, and that'll take I guess about 4½ minutes. [Pause.]
Okay. Map Camera Track going to Retract now.
Endeavour, this is Houston. Be advised that because we're not going to do a midcourse 5, we'll continue the X-ray pointing to about 238 plus 30, and we'll be coming at you with a list of the steps at 238 hours that you can delete because we're not doing the midcourse.
Okay. Fine. [Long pause.]
And, Dave, could - could you have someone check the barber pole on our Map Camera, Track, to see if you have the gray-Retract indication, please.
Rog, Joe. I been watching it. You got about 7 minutes and 20 - 20 seconds now and it's still barber pole.
Okay. That's what we're showing down here. And stand by. [Long pause.]
Okay, Endeavour. We're satisfied with that Mapping Camera exercise. Two more requests on that. Go to Off with the Extend/Retract switch, and to Off with the Mapping Camera/Laser Altimeter Cover switch, please. And we're finished with that.
Okay; Extend/Retract to Off; and a Map Camera/Laser Altimeter's going of Off.
That's right, Dave. And a note for Al. We think that the magazine Romeo, based on the frame count you gave us, still has enough frames left to take the solar corona pictures. And we'll have some special words for Al on how he's to take those pictures. I guess, we'll delete a few of the solar corona requirements. Also, word about the PRD configuration for the EVA. Apparently, we'll want the CMP to have the PRD whose number reads 25028. And, I guess, that's the one you've been carrying, Dave. And, Jim, will - will use the one that reads 08031, but we would like to have him reconfirm this number before he starts the EVA. Over.
Okay. Let me get that checklist here Joe; standby. The CMP is 250 - say again.
Roger. We want Al to wear the PRD that's now reading 25028. That will distinguish it from the other two with no ambiguity. And Jim to take the one that begins 080, and we want him to give us the full reading off of that before he starts the EVA, though.
Well, we'll have to give it to you now, because it will be in the suit and we won't be able to get to it.
That's fine. Any time. Any time. [Long pause.]
Okay. The one Jim will wear will be 08037.
Okay, Dave. Thank you. And if you'll give us P00 and Accept, we'll let you have a new state vector.
Rog. You've got it.
Endeavour, it's your computer.
Roger.
And, Houston; Endeavour. [Do] you want to go through the change in the Flight Plan at 238 hours, if you have it?
Standby. [Long pause.]
Okay, Dave. This involves delaying the SIM bay turnoff until 238 hours and 30 minutes. And in detail, at 238 plus 05, delete the P30 external Delta-V, and the Verb 49 maneuver. Lines: at 238 plus 20, delete sextant star check; at 238 plus 28, delete all the steps from there starting with circuit breaker SCS, et cetera, up to 238 plus 55, ending with RHC Power Direct, two, Off, et cetera. Over.
All right. I got all that. Thank you.
Hello, Endeavour, this is Houston.
Houston, Endeavour. Go.
Be advised at my mark, you are leaving the sphere of lunar influence; and it's downhill from here on in.
Mark.
Rog. Thank you, Joe. That's nice to know.
Did you notice anything there, Dave? Discontinuity in velocity or anything like that?
Well, Joe. That's one of the mysteries that we'll probably have keep to ourselves.
I was afraid of that.
Endeavour, this is Houston. [Pause.]
Go ahead.
Rog, Dave. We're looking down the line here towards the EVA. And the Surgeon's getting good biomed data on Al now, except one of the three EKG sensors is apparently marginal, and there's some noise creeping in. We're just wondering what your standard procedure is regarding sensoring before the EVA exercise. If he's going to resensor, it's probably no problem; if he's not planning to, maybe we ought to talk it over a little. Over.
Okay. We're all three all sensored, ready to go. If they have a problem, let's get it squared away right now.
Okay. Do you have, - Maybe Al could try pressing down on the three EKG leads, one at a time, for us; that may help us out.
Okay. Here we go. The upper right. [Long pause.]
Okay.
Okay. The upper center is being pressed. [Long pause.]
Okay.
Okay, the lower left. [Long pause.]
Okay. Stand by.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Dave, it looks to us like it's one of the two top sensors, and we're wondering how difficult it would be to reseat both of them now. [Pause.]
Okay. I'll tell you what we'll do. A little further down the line here, we'll take care of both of those. We'll resync them and reseat them and everything.
Okay, fine. Thank you.
And thank you for thinking ahead on that one.
Endeavour, Houston. [Pause.]
Houston, Endeavour. Go.
Rog. I've got an update to your corona - window calibration photography and the UV photographs, when you're ready. [Pause.]
Okay. Stand by one.
Houston, Endeavour. Can't seem to get the Mass Spec. boom all the way in and I guess Al's had a little trouble with it now and again with the barber pole being half - the talkback being half barber pole. And seems to flutter there, close to the gray position, and doesn't really come all the way in. [Pause.]
Okay, Dave. We copy. Let us think about that.
Okay. And we're going ahead with the dumps, if that's okay? [Pause.]
Okay. [Long pause.]
And if you'd like a visual check of just exactly where that's hanging up, why we can give it to you in a couple of hours. We'll have Al go out and take a look.
That's not a bad idea. Does he know about this plan yet?
Well, I don't know. We'll check with him. Yeah, he nods his head like he'd probably be obliged to do that.
Okay. Break it to him gently, though.
Okay.
And, Dave. While I got you here, I do want to comment that the first change in the Flight Plan is to delete the step at 238 plus 23 that says "enable all jets." We think that there is a - a certain chance that that Map Camera may be stuck out, and we particularly don't want RCS jets A4, A2, B1 and B4 to be enabled, because they may give us trouble with that camera. [Pause.]
Okay. Understand, Joe. We'll scratch that step and make sure A4, A2, B1 and B4 stay off.
Okay. And I'll - Standing by to read you some more photo PADs, just at your convenience.
Go ahead. I've got the Flight Plan out. [Pause.]
Okay. If you'll turn to page 3-352, which is the Corona Window Calibration and UV photos procedures page.
I've got it.
Okay. The attitude involved in the corona photographs should read 057, 005, 025. And the time on that, 239 plus 08. And the High Gain [Antenna] numbers, pitch, minus 48; yaw, 238. [Pause.]
Okay. 057, 005, 025 at 239:08. Minus 48 and 238 for the High Gain.
That's correct, and moving down a couple of lines, the shutter speed should be changed from 1/500th to 1/125th. And change the inhibit jets line to read "damp rates for 5 minutes." CMC Mode to Free. [Long pause.]
Okay. Understand. Scratch inhibit jets, and substitute damp rates for 5 minutes, and then CMC, Free, and the 1/125th replaces the 1/500th on the camera.
That's correct, Dave. And moving down a little further, delete the line, "cycle 1 frame, change shutter" and delete the line "cycle 1 frame." And finally, change the last line, enable all jets to read, "CMC Mode, Auto." [Pause.]
Okay, delete line, "cycle 1 frame" and "cycle 1 frame"; and CMC Auto, replaces "Enable all jets."
That's correct and assuming you're going to take the UV photographs after the EVA, I have a photo PAD for that, if that assumption is correct.
Looks like that assumption is probably correct, Joe, and we'll take the photo PAD later on. Let us get on with corona [photography], or we won't make it.
Okay. Sounds good.
Apollo 15, Houston. [Long pause.]
Houston, 15. Go.
Rog, Jim. We understand you're going to delete [means postpone] the UV photographs, but after you complete the corona window calibration, you will have to do the first step in the UV photos trans-Earth coast procedures, there. And that first step is Verb 49 maneuver to Earth UV photo attitude, and it lists the attitude there. We need this for thermal reasons.
Rog. We'll do that.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Hey, Joe. Just a point of clarification on the backing to be used for the corona. I don't know whether you're aware or not, but the backing that fits into window 4, which is the right-hand rendezvous window, has two different mounting pads for the camera, one is 250 and the other is 80. And the 80 is pointing 12 degrees below the X-axis, and I just wanted to check and see if you wanted us - if that's the proper pad or if you wanted us to use the 80 or the 250 pad.
Al, use the 80. The one pointing 12 degrees above the X-axis.
Okay, Joe. Thank you.
