Houston, 15. We're prepared to maneuver to the thermal attitude a little early if you'd like us to go over there.
15, this is Houston. That would be fine with us.
Roger.
15, Houston. We'd like to have Auto on the High Gain and go from Reacq to Auto quickly.
Rog. Going Auto.
15, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Houston; 15.
After some discussion down here, we'd like to disable your jets A2 - Alpha 2 and Bravo 1, mainly because the Mapping Camera's still out and our concern is that the plume will be deflected down into the SIM bay and possibly damage some of our electrical wiring or some of the - the N2 plumbing, which may give us other problems.
Rog. Sounds like a good idea. If there's any other particular configuration you want, just let us know.
Roger.
And A2 and Bravo 1 are disabled.
Thank you.
Houston, 15.
15, go ahead.
Rog. The OPS pressure is 2,000 and we'll be off comm for about 5 or 10 minutes here while we reconfigure the suits and everything.
We copy.
15, this is Houston.
15, this is Houston. How do you read?
Apollo 15, this is Houston. How do you read?
Apollo 15, this is Houston. How do you read?
Houston, Apollo 15. We'll start to charge on battery B now, if you're ready.
Roger, 15. We're ready for the battery charge; and, while we're about it, the experimenters are getting a little fidgety about the waste water dump because that will impact their Mass Spectrograph work, so we would like to get the dump and the O2 fuel cell purge started also.
Rog. We'll get on it right away.
And, 15, whenever Al has a couple of minutes, we have a few questions about the SIM bay that we'd like to debrief on.
Okay, give - give him another 15 to 20 minutes here.
Rog.
15, this is Houston.
Hello Houston, 15. Go ahead.
We need to make a small change in the Flight Plan, because there's a need now to turn the X-ray experiment on. If you'll go down to that group of steps at 245:30, we'd like to do four of them. We'd like to get the "Data Systems - On - switch to On." We'd like to "Disable the jets." We'd like to get "S-band Aux, TV to Science."
Hey, stand by one.
Rog.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. Four of those steps down to 245:30 we want to do right away, if possible. We want to get the "S-band Aux, TV to Science." We want the "Data System On switch to On." We want to "Disable all jets except -" and we want "X-ray Experiment, On."
Okay. Understand at 45:30 - 245:30, you want "S-band Aux, TV to Science, Data Systems On to On, disable all jets, and X-ray Experiment, On" immediately.
That's correct.
We need the repress time on the cabin..
Yes.
Ten days and 5 hours we've been gone, Jim.
Long time. We beat your old record.
By 3 minutes.
Sure does. Went farther from home, too.
That's great.
Didn't go as far.
Let's not count the miles.
Huh?
Didn't go as far, but went farther.
Yes, coming back.
And a lot more fun, too.
A lot more to it.
Big Dipper, do you know, on 9, we could have missed any one thing and pressed on.
Yes.
Here, it's a lot different; you can't miss anything and press on.
Well, it looks like we can't miss anything.
Very different. Very different.
This is sort of an all-or-nothing kind of operation, you know it?
Yes, it really is, you know. It's really all your eggs in one basket, boy. I got to thinking about that after you guys left for your descent. Once you start that descent, man, that - that's it...
We're all hanging out.
We're there. That's right. It's all hanging out from there on.
It would be better for to put pills in all the food drawers.
For sure.
Make him.
Let's put them away somewhere.
Where will I put them? It's the last time I'm saying it, but you better not lose your pills.
You didn't see them in your TSB, did you, Jim?
What?
You didn't see the pills in your TSB when you cleaned out, did you?
No..
Ohh, what did I do with it?
It's almost back to normal times.
Where did you see them?
Down in U-1.
Do you really know what?
Apollo 15, this is Houston. We're having some ground problems in communications networks, and we'd like to have a comm check.
Oh! Did you notice anything loose?
Well, I thought I saw - Well, I saw a...
Hey, do you guys get some orange juice?. Let's enjoy it - let's enjoy it while we can.
Except for bad stuff, we can always put up with it for 1 more day.
Yes, that's right. Well - Hey, let's - will be our last meal. We have three meals below and breakfast 1 day.
And a long way to go.
Oh, hush.
Apollo 15, this is Houston. How do you read?
Hello, Houston; this is 15. Loud and clear, and I got your first message, Karl. I'm sorry.
Hi, Al. Yeah, we've got some sort of problem on ground circuits here. Just wanted to make sure we were in contact with you.
No, we're here.
Roger; very good.
Al, we have some questions for you on the SIM bay experiments, whenever you have some time to answer them.
Oh, yes. That's right. That's great.
Okay, Karl. Tell you what, I'll give you a call back in about 10 minutes when I'm ready.
Very good.
No, he's got some questions on the SIM bay.
SIM bay looks pretty good.
What'd.?
I'm coming. I'm coming, Jim..
Yes, I can see through on the handles.
I didn't even see any scorching or any burning or anything down there.
The covering on the - on the Service Module, if it hadn't been covered, boy, that would have been burned and scarred and scorched and everything else.
Yes. That's right.
Yes. Yes. Excuse me one second, will you?
Excuse me, Jim. Let me get out of your way here.
Really?
Well, I guess it doesn't make any difference on this food if we take it back home anyway.
Yes, that's probably true. They can decontaminate it back there.
Sure.
You can tell them we ran out, though. Do you think this salad's good, Al?
My what?
Sandwich spread. It's a whole half a can.
Sure you can, Jim.
We have to finish after you.
Okay, I'll eat it.
That's right.
What?
If you wouldn't complain so much, we wouldn't leave you so much.
You guys didn't leave me nothing.
Freak you!
I'm thinking.
What kind of desserts we got there, Jim? A lemon pudding, huh?
Mmmm.
Yes, you're right, mouth, and I'm going to catch it.
I'm ready, if you can catch it.
That's the only way a power bowler makes it.
Huh? Yes, I suppose we ought to think about doing that. We can get to all that stuff now.
Bright idea..
I would.
That's a pretty good sandwich.
Mm-hmm.
How much food we got left?
I don't know, at least a couple of days.
Six-foot waves in the recovery area, huh?
Yes.
That'll be sporty.
Yes, if we can dodge and land, that's great.
Yes.
That's better than dead calm.
It is?
Yes..
It's probably because the power's.
Hmm.
That's why we had so much trouble on 9..
Why can't we just hop on over her pretty good in that fashion, too?
Yes.
It's not that bad, boys.
15, this is Houston.
Houston, 15. Go ahead.
Roger. Just sending up a reminder about the X-ray pointing attitude, which is due very soon now, and the activation of the SIM bay experiments.
Okay, Karl. Thank you.
Okay, Houston. Boy, oh, boy, I used to think it was a good thing to get on a flight and then they could only talk at you one at a time. Whew, boy! Now, I think it's a good thing to get back so you - you don't have to listen to that goddam radio all the time.
The DAC, yes. But the Hasselblad's above your head.
No, mine's - I don't think so. No, that's Jim's.
What else we got?
It's time for the UV stuff, huh? Let me get out of your way. You couldn't find any more pills, right?
No, I thought I put them in your TSB. I just saw them hanging there just before we started all that stuff, and I don't know.
Apollo 15, we'd like to have Omni Alpha.
Rog; Omni Alpha.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Okay, Karl. I'm ready to talk SIM bay; but first, a couple of questions.
Fire away.
Okay. What attitude do you want us to do the UV photo - photography at.
Roger, Al. The information on - on UV photos is to follow the procedures - Okay - you want the attitude - the procedures are on page 3-352, and the attitude to be used is 210, 242, 322.
Say the attitude again, please.
210, 242, 322. Also, note use of magazine P, and also the time - the time that we start the maneu - the time that we finish the maneuver is 247 plus 45.
And let me clarify that magazine. That is the magazine for the UV color photographs. That is magazine P instead of magazine M.
Okay. Understand. Use the procedures on page 3-352, except change the attitude to 210, 242, and 322, and this whole thing is to be done at 247:45.
Roger. That's the time for completing the maneuver.
Well, what time would you like us to maneuver to that attitude then?
Roger. The time to start the maneuver is 24 - 247 plus 36.
I understand. 247 plus 36. Rog. Thank you, Karl.
Okay, Al. Are you ready for the SIM bay questions?
Rog, Karl. Sure am.
Okay. First of all, the guys down here would like send up their warmest congratulations on such an ex - successful EVA. You sure made it look easy up there. And the questions. The questions we got are about the Mapping Camera, and they're directed at the general problem of is there - was there anything you could see which might indicate why it jammed? And there are three - three particular items that you might have looked at. First of all, it was the main camera cover at the bottom of the camera. Was it touching or scraping the camera in any way that you noticed?
The answer to that is negative. In fact. I checked it. I checked the Mapping Camera cover, Laser Altimeter cover quite carefully to make sure, because I do know that there have been some interference problems with that before, particularly with the Pan Camera, so I was looking at that in particular to see that it was maybe adjusted too close or - or interfering along the side of the Pan Camera, and it was not. There was about half an inch clearance between the upper edge of the cover and the body of the Mapping Camera, so that I - I don't see that that was responsible for the thing jamming.
Roger. I think you've very clearly put that suspicion to rest. There are also two covers to the solar camera in the upper left side of the Mapping Camera. And did you notice any - any distortion or any scraping in - in these covers? There's one possibility. The one that stuck out to the left - it - it might have jammed and the screwjack that controls it might have twisted it or distorted it. Was there anything you noticed like that?
Negative, Karl. I noticed nothing out of place with the Mapping Camera, nothing interfering. I checked all the way around it, down into the cavity, nothing interfering. I saw no evidence of anything interfering, and it looked clean underneath, so I don't think there was anything blocking it from underneath. I don't know. My distinct impression after surveying the Mapping Camera and looking around the cavity where the Mapping Camera fits was that there is a problem with the drive.
Roger. You didn't see anything inhibiting its motion, not even the electrical cables up on the top, huh?
Negative, and I guess I can ask a question along that line. Has anyone noticed any high current when we've gone to Retract on the Mapping Camera to indicate that it was hanging up?
We didn't see any, Al, although there had been a long controversy down here about the long amount of time required to extend and retract. It was, even though it was about the 4 minutes predicted several months ago, it was somewhat longer than what we'd observed at the Cape. People had been worrying about that for some time.
Yeah, I realize that. And I also, as I re - as I go back to what we saw at the Cape, there was some problems with that thing hanging up in drive itself at the Cape.
Roger. Okay, a couple of questions on the Mass Spectrometer. You gave us some good information there, but when you said the Mass Spectrometer cover wasn't completely closed, could you give us some idea at - as - to - to what degree it had closed, to what angle, and was there any poss - any cocking, any - any twisting in - in that cover.
Well, I couldn't tell whether there was any warpage in the cover or not, particularly because that kind of a cover is a little - looks like its warped anyway. It looked to me, I could - I pulled the cover out of the way enough to look at the Mass Spec. inside, and I could see the guide pin and along the sides of the carriage coming through the holes all the way up, so that they were plainly visible from the outside which - which meant to me that the - the Mass Spec. was either very close to being seated on the carriage or it was seated. I - I guess I don't really know how far those guide pins extend out beyond the - the carriage. The other thing was that the - that the cover - the Inconel cover was - it - was rotated about 30 degrees on its - on its hinge point from the full close position. And I thought at first, as I indicated when I was there, that there - there looked like there was some interference in one of the outer covers or one the outer edges, but after playing with that and pulling it a little bit when I was out there, it was quite obvious to me that that wasn't the problem either. And - and beyond that, I couldn't see down around beside the cover enough to tell whether there was something internal between the cover and the Mass Spec. that was - that was binding the cover.
Roger, Al. We copy that. And would you open the X-ray and Alpha Covers right now, please?
Okay, X-ray/Alpha Covers coming open.
Okay. I guess you've answered most of our questions on the Mass Spec., and you've approached one that we might get a little more out of, and that is those guide rails sticking through the guides. There is a tapered portion, and when it's completely seated, you actually see the - the - the cylindrical portion beyond the tapered portion. Did you actually see the cylindrical portion, or was it all tapered area that you looked at on the guide rail?
Okay, that's good scoop. All I saw was the tapered area.
Roger. You probably - If it was fully seated, you would have seen about a half inch of - of the cylinder there, and this is a good indication that it was not all the way seated even though it was close.
Here's a couple of other questions. Give me a second to look at them.
Why don't you get the?
Okay.
Okay, Al. Mostly questions here about the contamination status and things in the SIM bay. First of all, how about the - the - the door eder - the door edges? Did they blow off smoothly and cleanly?
Yes, very cleanly. I saw no rough edges at all.
Stand by a moment, Al.
Okay.
Don't forget to.
Ion - Ion Source to Standby.
Al, we're anxious to bring up the High Gain Antenna. I've got a couple of angles here if they'll help.
Okay.
Minus 76 and 117.
Okay. Minus 76 and 117.
Okay. We copied your comment on the SIM bay door jettison, and further questions go as follows. The white coatings in the SIM bay were - Did you notice that any of them why - were obviously discolored or - or coated from contamination or overheating?
I saw no evidence of heating in the SIM bay. I saw no evidence of discoloration of the white surfaces. There were - - as - as best I could tell, no particulate matter that had come to rest on any of the surfaces in the SIM bay. It looked very, very clean. And - even across the top of the Mapping Camera where there was a - such a heating problem expected, I saw no indications of heating whatsoever, particularly on things like the cover over the Mapping Camera cassette, which was supposedly a very hot spot, and it was just as clean as a whistle. There wasn't - there wasn't any evidence of scorching or contamination anywhere that I could see.
Roger. And, on the insulation and foils, I guess there's a question here - Were any of them burned or discolored? You probably already told us that. Were any of them torn or were there any attachment failures?
No, I couldn't see any evidence of - of any burning or tearing or anything else back there, Karl.
Okay, we got one more general question there. And our Flight Dynamics Officer, who is vitally concerned about our reentry weight, would like to know whether or not we jettisoned more or less than a nominal 32 pounds; and, if so, by how much?
Okay. Stand by one.
Say, Houston, we've talked it over, and I guess we'd say it was pretty close to a nominal - as far as weight. We have no idea of - of determining exactly what the weight was, but we're going to try and work our reentry stowage over this afternoon and tomorrow morning, and we hope to give you a - a plan by - somewhere around noon tomorrow, of where all the rocks are stowed and where everything is stowed and what we have on board. So you can start - so Mr. FIDO can work up his entry plan.
Roger. And, if somebody has the time to copy it, I've got a small Flight Plan update available now.
Okay, Karl. I'll take that.
Hi, Jim. How're you doing?
Just fine.
Okay. 246 hours and 20 minutes; we have High Gain angles of pitch, 00; yaw, 240. At...
00 and 240.
Roger. And at 246 plus 46, we want to add "Change discriminator to low."
Understand. Scratch "Discriminator, High," and make it "Discriminator, Low."
That's correct. And, on 247 plus 28, delete that DAP load.
Okay. We already have that change.
Sorry about that. On 247 plus 30, we'd like to have the "Alpha/X-ray Covers, Closed; then Off", and delete the note on the Cover Open/Close.
Okay, understand. At 247:30, you'd like "Alpha/X-ray Doors, Closed," and just delete the note here.
Roger. And stand by one second.
247 plus 30. Also, we would like to add "Mass Spectrometer Multiplier, High; Discriminator, Low."
Understand. At 247:30, you want to add "Mass Spec. Multiplier, High, and Discriminator, Low."
Rog. And, at 247 plus 32, we'd like to have "Mass Spec. Multiplier, High; Discriminator, High."
Okay, 247:32, "Mass Spec. Multiplier, High, and Discriminator, High."
Roger. And I guess you need to save room, if there's any left there, because at 34 and at 36, we want to change these two switches again. At 34, we want "Mass Spec. Multiplier, Low; Discriminator, High."
Understand. At 34 you want "Multiplier, Low; and Discriminator, High."
Affirmative and at 36, we want "Multiplier, Low; Discriminator, Low."
Okay. At 247:36, it's "Multiplier, Low; and Discriminator, Low."
Affirmative. Also at 247:36 is "Add the UV photos," and we've already sent up the changes required for that; the changes over and above what's on page 3-352. And there's one reminder there, and that is to verify that when you use filter 2, that you take one frame for 20 seconds and one frame for 2 seconds.
Roger. We remember that.
Okay. The next step is 247 plus 45, "X-ray to Standby."
Okay. At 247:45, "X-ray to Standby."
And, at 247 plus 50, we want to move the PTC initiation steps from 247:30 to 247:50.
Okay. Understand. The initiation of PTC to be delayed from 247:30 to 247:50.
That's affirmative. At 248 hours and 0 minutes, we'd like the following: we'd like the Mass Spectrometer boom retraction sequence. Each retraction step will last 20 minutes, instead of 12. And terminate this test at 249 plus 30.
Go back to 248, Karl, on that Mass Spectrometer boom retraction sequence.
Roger. I...
I have that in there.
I - I guess all - all we're doing there is changing - The - the retraction step will be 20 minutes instead of 12 minutes. Down at the end of the writing there, it says "Each sample period will last 12 minutes." We'd like to have that at 20 minutes.
Okay. I'll change the note there then. It occurs about 248:20; this 12 will be 20.
That's correct. At 249:05, we'd like to move the Mass Spec. boom deploy from 05 to 30 - from 249:05 to 249:30.
Understand. Move the Mass Spec. boom deploy from 249:05 to 249:30.
Roger. And one final one at 251:48, which you may already have, is delete the DAP load there.
I do; we have that one, Karl.
Okay. That completes the update. Thank you.
Thank you.
15, Houston. We'd like to have Gamma-ray Gain Step up 4 clicks.
Okay. That's Gamma-ray Gain Step up 4 clicks.
15, this is Houston. We trust you'll be pleased to hear the news that the high voltage has been turned on to the subsatellite, and that they find that all systems are operational.
Oh, that's very good. Glad to hear it.
15, Houston. We have a couple of more comments on the UV photo procedures, if somebody can copy.
Go ahead, Karl.
Roger. We overlooked the fact that you are taking these photos in the midst of SIM bay operation, so a couple of little things change. Going back to page 3-352, you can first of all delete, below the damp rates notation, in - you can delete "Inhibit all jets, except" the jets that are there, and just keep the jet configuration you got right now.
Okay. I copy that. Do you have any other comments?
Roger. Under "Remove the CM5 window," put in there "CMC, Free," and likewise, about four lines up from the bottom, just above "note", put in "CMC, Auto". And the final comment, "Enable all jets"; you can delete that. And that's all.
Okay; understand. Just below "Remove CM5 window cover" put "CMC, Free," and then down at the - the bottom there, just above the note, put "CMC, Auto," and scratch "enable all jets."
Roger.
Houston, 15.
15, go ahead; Houston.
Dr. Parker, I presume. Listen, Bob, we got to pull the Gamma-ray to 15 feet at 50, and wonder if you've got an updated retraction time for us.
That's affirm, Al. We have a retract time of 247 plus 50, for 72 seconds. Over.
Understand, 72 seconds.
That's affirm. And, 15, if you got your Flight Plan out, we can update a couple more times in that same general vicinity for you.
Okay, the Flight Plan is out and the door is open.
Okay. At 248:02, the Mass Spec. boom retract time - that should be 33 seconds. And that time will apply to the first retraction. The second, third, fourth, and fifth retractions will be 32 seconds. Over.
Okay, Bob. Understand that the first retraction is 33 seconds and the succeeding retractions will be 32 seconds. Is that 4 or 5?
Stand by.
Apollo 15, Houston. That will be 32 seconds for all succeeding ones, and we are going to do that up to 249:30. And so all succeeding ones you get will be at 32 seconds. And we will finish that test at 249:30, no matter where we are. And I believe I see that Karl has sent up comment that the sample period would be 20 minutes instead of 12. Is that right?
That's Roger; we have that.
Okay. And another change: at 249:36, the Gamma-ray deploy. That time will be 63 seconds. Over.
Copy, 63 seconds.
Okay. That's all we have for right now.
Okay, thank you, Bob.
Apollo 15, Houston. Request Omni Delta, please.
Roger. Omni Delta.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Houston, 15. Go ahead.
Roger, 15. If you guys will give us a hack when you start the first Mass Spec. retraction, we'll keep an eye on those 20-minute periods for you.
Okay; good deal.
Just completed one.
Did you do one?
Yes. I'll talk to him.
Bob, we just completed one retraction for 33 seconds.
Okay, we're starting our time.
And away we go.
Hey, you woke up just in time to eat again, Dave.
fresh.
To sleep in work.
Okay, valve pressure is getting good and is.
Surge tank pressure greater than 400?
Yes, 487..
Any surge?
Yes, it's 600.
Yes.
Yes..
You got that solar stuff?
Sure a relaxed schedule here today.
We're going along all right until we get to.
You never do any more UV work, Al?
Yes, we get another one tomorrow.
Hand me the log there, will you? Oh, we don't have the log out, do we?
find it.
It might be in my TSB. My TSB.
Let's see. I have a G&C Checklist over here. But I don't have the - I don't have the other good information. I take it back; I have it. I have it.
Did you take any UV photos in - in orbit?
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Go ahead. Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, 15. We'd like to get a pitch of minus 4.0 and yaw of 90 for the High Gain Antenna. And then, if you'd change your antenna switch to High Gain without hitting the Command Reset switch, we'll maintain comm that way, please.
Yes. Okay.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Negative. You did the right thing without us calling you. Thank you.
Whatever that was, okay.
Are we going to press on with the High Gain?
Yes, yes. If you just get your down here,.
Ah, mark it.
We want to take four breathing samples and do our. What do we have - we have about 50 left to make, don't we?
We have 50 in this one.
Okay.
Yes.
change that one.
Bring it in.
You should bring that. I used the scissors to cut mine on the LM, but - Is there a file on the end of those scissors?
I don't think so. That one's.
Not much of a file, huh?
I got a razor blade.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
And 15, Houston, your rates look good to us for spinup.
Okay, Bobby.
Maybe we better turn the heat up a little in here.
Getting cold?
My feet are a little cold. I wonder where my - my little slippers went.
Open up my - open up my sack. Here's my little slipper.
Get me into my slippers in here.
Are they yours?
Two-hundredths.
I'll take them.
Yes.
Yes, I think I did.
No. I think I - There is one.
Are you sure, Jim?
The last time I saw it, we - it was in B-1. You know, wrapped in there with the - the jett bag. But it's not in there any longer.
No, it's not in there now. Just - just the...
It's not in there now.
I don't know, Dave. I'll have to look. I don't know - I don't know who took that stuff out of B-1.
What'd you - Al, the one - the cam - we had the 500 - millimeter camera, Al?
Yes.
Remember, we pulled the cameras out and put them in the Jett bag.
Yes.
I gave you yours, and you.
You gave me my camera at that time?
Yes,.
Tell me where it is and I'll look.
Yes.
Did you find?
Yes.
And, 15, time for the next cycle on the Mass Spec.: 32 seconds.
Okay. We were a little ahead of you that time.
Rog.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Bob.
Roger. If you guys are - have a moment free, we'll pass up three comments to you preparatory to some stuff you want to do later on.
Yeah, go ahead.
Okay, first is a reminder that we're counting on using the OPS to pump up the cabin for sleep tonight - another way of bleeding off the OPS. Guess we'll remind you now so you don't stow it away down underneath something where it's inconvenient. And we'd like a read-out on the OPS after you finish pumping up the cabin tonight. Second comment is a reminder that we'd like a cue on the vacuum cleaner, if you intend to use it for this contamination control period coming up in a half hour or so. And third one is that as far as the medics are concerned, it's dealer's choice on who wears the biomed tonight. Over.
Okay, We copied, Bob.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We'd like to confirm Auto, Auto, Off on the O2 heaters. It looks like we've gone beyond the point where they should have come on.
They're all Off right now, Bob.
Roger. That explains what we are seeing. Roger: we'd like Auto, Auto, Off, please.
Understand; Auto, Auto, Off.
Thank you.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Okay, just wanted to clear up the O2 heaters with you. Are you aware that the last instruction that we had in the Flight Plan was at 243:30 that said "O2 Heaters, three, Off"?
Stand by. That wasn't on my shift.
You're not the regular crew chief, huh?
15 - Apollo 15, Houston. That callout at 243:30 is the O2 heaters for tank 3, only.
Okay, Robert, I stand corrected.
That's one I owe you.
15, you called?
Negative, negative.
I think this package of mags goes into A-8.
Ah, you think so, huh?
Should be pictures we used all that film.. It picked up a little here.
Who's going to?
Where's your bag?.
It's down here right now. I got to get these straightened out.
Yes.
I'd like - I'd like to get a mag of that, too. Start eating it..
The mag, you mean?
Well, no matter what you do, it's got to come back tightly, before you start it.
I knew you could, but you could - you could do it perfect here, or you could Now can you get it started?
Yes.
Al, one pack of this film goes in A-8, the 70s in the LM.
Yes.
40. Want three of them?
Yes.
Did you get three?
Yes.
Okay.
We're going to get the other three in today. We'll have 13. We'll have to split the package up.
We can put some mags in here.
Yes.
We only got this one mag.
that?
Right on. Why don't we just?
Probably, because nobody can.
Probably.
in there? Al. That bag is much too big to fit in there.
but we can certainly get.
We need one bigger than this, though.
Well, this bag probably should not have come over from the LM. I used this bag, though, to wrap up these - these mags. You know, neither one have been used.
I think they might be.
What are you going to get out of here?
Carry it for me. Can't help but be better.
You got to work - work it out.
that one.
I wouldn't.
Yes, I wouldn't.
Yes. Tool - tool B on the - wait - wait a second.
Tool B or tool E?
Tool B.
From the LM?
Apollo 15, Houston. It's retract time.
Thank you, Bob.
What?
Hey, I forgot to cut - I didn't cut the ion off.
Cut the ion?
No. We should have cut the hammock straps. Should have got those, too, before we jettison them.
No, those are the LM pans..
Hey, Dave? Yes, you got them.
We do UV photos twice. Two more - UV photos two more times.
your film.
It's kind of nice having some room down here, isn't it?
It sure is.
You don't want to go through this contamination control with the vacuum cleaner, do you, Dave?
I don't think we're required to do it.
Okay.
No, we don't.
We don't? mention down-range control. They're standing by to give some water on it anyway.
And, Apollo 15; Houston. It's time to retract again.
Okay, thank you.
And, 15, be advised that this is the last retract we'll do. We will not do the fifth retract in order to ensure that we don't damage the filament by getting it in too close. We'll sit in this retracted position for 30 minutes, and then deploy the Mass Spec. boom as per the Flight Plan at 249:30. Over.
Okay, understand.
Oh, and then CDR doffing biomed harness. LMP donning. Alpha X-ray. Let's get a little SIM bay and then eat. Eat and then we do a canister change, You do a little P23 stuff. Then we'll get ready to go to bed.
Three hours to bedtime.
sleep..
3 to 4 hours.
here?
Otherwise, it would have been pretty boring.
Yes.
You work mighty hard, I'll tell you.
What?
You work mighty hard.
No, a little.
I wish I would have tried running alongside the Rover at a - the same pace, you know, to see how...
You'd have never stayed with it, Jim. You know...
Yes, true.
I would have liked to have, you know, to run alongside of it. It'd been neat to do a few things like that, you know.
What?
It'd been neat to try a few things like that.
Yes. I know. Yes..
You can take off your biomed harness, Dave.
Whoo!
He'll lose sleep for 9 hours tonight.
Good!.
Can you see the Moon?
Oh, yes.
Can you get that? Thank you.
On a lunar eclipse - Let's see, we take a total there of...
No, we take some with the EL.
Yes.
Yes. We take eight with the EL.
What kind?
Color.
Yes, eight with color.
Here's some more Lunar Orbiter.
Is that the same?
No, you have it on two different pages.
Oh, yes.
Hey, what was this one for?
Don't you have any more?
think we need any.
Yes..
It's in the lockers.
more?
time to figure it out - figured out.
Going to give them?
Yes, you got to reckon with him yet.
Huh?
You're going to have to reckon with him yet on those...
Yes. make sure to recommend that he.
Yes.
Yes.
Apollo 15, Houston. About 2 minutes to Mass Spec. boom deploy. And we'd like a Delta-T on the length of time it takes to deploy it, please.
Roger, Bob.
They can't tell that, I don't think.
Bob, the deploy time on the Mass Spec. was 3 and 25.
Roger. Copied 3 plus 25, Jim.
Roger.
There must be a mag around somewhere. There must be two of them.
In the bag.
Okay.
Now, all we're missing is S, per his.
Is that mag hooked up?
I don't know.
I've got - I've got two whole reels of color stereo.
Yes, that goes back up for.
Why?
Why?
Why?
Let's see. Next is the.
Huh?
Huh?
One more time. Ready?
Yes.
Apollo 15, Houston. While you're eating your supper there, I thought you might be interested in knowing how the vectors are going. Your vector and the ground's vector are extremely close, and - at least at the moment - we'll see what happens when we take the next P23. Right now we're looking at no midcourse 6 and about 1.8 foot per second for midcourse 7.
Houston, 15. That sounds pretty good, and it looks like we'll see what happens on the P23s. One - You say 1.7 on midcourse 7 is what it looks like right now.
Roger; 1.8. The vectors, I guess right now, about 4,000 feet apart and about a couple of feet per second in velocity and no more.
Sounds great.
You got it?
Over here.
Oh, yes.
God damn.
Huh?
Al, what all is there?
We have turkey.
Turkey?
Yes.
Do we have something extra for lunch?
Ham.
As you're loading it.
Oh, I - you know, I think we can do it with.
Ah, yes.
Hey, I'd - I'd like to. Yes..
I'm just fine. Just fine.
I'm so damn happy; nobody could give me any better service.
What seems to be?
Hey, what do you?
Yes. Yes,.
Yes, I guess the worst thing in the world would be to try to do something like that and not be able to do it.
Oh, boy,.
Tired?
Yes.
Well, I'll tell you, I'm sure glad we got rid of that clothesline operation.
In fact, it's really a ball, when you get all suited up, get cooled off, and get the hatch open.
Sounds good. Sounds real good.
Oh, it's great.
The Sun would have been some better - It would have been better if it could have been a little bit higher. Because when I went down around the side of the mapping camera, it was pretty dark.
Yes.
Yes.
Boy, I hope the - I hope the TV came out all right.
Yes..
Did you? Okay..
Got them. Got them.
Okay.
Somehow they got way down in there...
Well, we didn't lose anything of value out the hatch..
Everything's okay.
We lost a spring clip. We lost a paper clip...
Apollo 15, Houston. We can terminate battery Bravo charge now.
Houston, 15. Roger; will do.
And 15, Houston. A reminder that when we exit PTC in about 15 minutes, we'd like to do it using the SIM bay RCS configuration.
Roger, Houston; understand.
Want me to write?
Where do you want this? In your?
Okay. Plus four balls 8, minus three balls 67, plus three balls 54.
Wait a minute; maybe that's 34.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Oh, you screwed up.
And, 15, this is Houston. We have your torquing angles. That's some platform, isn't it?
Yes, sir, Bob. You bet you; it sure is beautiful.
You say that sure has been planned for me?
Yes,.
The platform gets us home without a midcourse, by golly.
No range error, but pressure's a little low.
Hey, Jim. While you're down there, we need a canister change. Twenty-one into B. Stow 19 in A-4.
Twenty-one. Yes. Twenty should be in A. Get it out of A-4.
No!
catch it.
That a boy.
Lock her, Dave. You can.
Yes, it is. I think we can I hate to use those pulleys.
Yes. If you use your own tool.
Who stole my? Boy,, didn't I?
What are you doing?
Thank you, Davey.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Houston, 15. Go.
Roger. Mister Lightning Fingers, we'd appreciate it if you'd keep your Noun 49 on for about 5 seconds on this P23, so we get a nice chance to look at it here on the ground.
I will do my best, sir.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston; 15.
Super marks, Al. You can do my P23s any day.
They looking okay down there, Bob?
Rog. We caught all of them. Hey, when you go back into PTC now, we'd like to change Noun 79, the rate one anyway, to a minus.42. Over.
Going to try a little higher one, now? Okay, minus.42.
Roger.
And, 15; Houston. If you've got a minute, we've got a couple more comments for you.
Okay. Anything I need to write down?
Negative. Number...
Okay. Go ahead.
number one, we'd like to know the film status of magazine Victor. And number two, if you're planning on being the loop tonight, Al, for the biomed, your harness needs some attention. The heart rate that we're getting down is getting a little noisy. Over.
Well, in the first place, my heart rate is always noisy; and, in the second place, I guess Jim's going to be on tonight.
Understand.
Houston, 15.
15, Houston. Go.
Okay, Bob. Mag Victor is 12 frames expended.
Copy, 12 frames expended. Thank you.
15, Houston. We suggest that you go ahead with your Gamma-ray deployment while you're doing your rate damping.
Roger, Houston.
And, 15; Houston. If you feel like it, we can take your E-mod now.
Okay. Coming your way.
And, 15, we have your E-memory dump.
Okay, good.
15, Houston. We're Go for spinup for PTC.
Okay, good.
What are you doing there, man?
Did you find it?
That's better.
Yes, I wouldn't know the switches on it.
Houston, Apollo 15.
Apollo 15, go.
Hi, Bob; got a presleep checklist for you.
Shoot; we're ready. Dave, hold on. We got a...
Okay.
Okay, 15, we're back with you. We just had a site changeover.
Okay. Crew status is all good, no medication. And I've got the onboard read-outs if you've got a pencil.
I've got a pencil.
All righty. Starting with Bat C, 37.0, 37.0, 37.0; RCS A is 56, B is 50, 48, and 52. And I guess everything else has been done, and I guess you got your E-memory dump. We pressurized the cabin with the OPS, and, when we got to about 5.7 or 5.8, the OPS was down to 800. And I reckon that's the size of it.
Roger, Dave. That sounds like the size of it to us. We copy all that, and there will be no vector update. Ground says your vector is just as good as theirs right now.
How about that? Oh, that's pretty good. We got a good navigator.
And, 15, let's hold a couple of minutes while we check some data on SIM bay and while we go around the MOCR one more time. And we'll be back with you in final status, I hope.
Okay, we got - we got time. We're not quite ready to go to bed yet.
Bob says, if he - says, okay, let me go around to the MOCR and check it and come back with your final status, I hope.
But, you know, they got to old Joe, I can tell. Joe's changed. He's a changed man. They had him, boy.
They did?
They were all over his ass during that EVA. He was just really humping. That poor fellow - I bet he's exhausted.
He probably had so damn many inputs, he didn't know which way to go.
Huh?
apart.
Oh, he's pretty close to them. That - that group's all tied together pretty well. Yes. It was in pretty good shape. We got all those guys out on the field trips and sat down and talked to all of them, and that - that group's pretty well squared away.
No, they're in the back room. And the guy who really comes up to him is Jerry Griffith.
Oh, yes?
He's really the experiments officer. But...
Who's Gerry Griffith?
Yes.
Yes.
And - But it really goes from Gordon Swann through Griffith to the Flight Director to Joe. And it's - it's a straight loop because Griffith and Griffin both understand the problem, so it - it isn't any big deal. Except that all the other people who aren't in the loop and don't understand were there - all the guys up in the back row with their input - with them.
Gerry Griffin said he - one of his main problems was going to be holding the people off behind him - you know, to let Joe do his job, and I'm sure it was - especially when they can see it all on the TV. And they're clanked...
They're all there?
Yes. They're all clanked up anyway. Then we go up on top of some big frigging mountain or stand right next to some big frigging valley, and, you know, they can't do anything about it; they're all bunched up like a nickel cigar.
They and..
Yes.
And.
Yes.
Apollo 15, Houston, the only thing we show lacking at the moment is Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, On. Other than that, you're Go for sleep.
Okay, understand. Gain Step, Shield, On.
