Good morning, Endeavour. This is Houston. [Long pause.]
Hello, you guys.
Good morning.
Good morning, Dave. A little something special for your LMP from your lunar lift-off Flight Director with young Ed Fendell on the cymbal.
Oh, man; he's standing at attention right now. [Pause.]
Roger. We copy that. [Long pause.]
Endeavour, this is Houston, with our first request of the day. We'd like the X-ray Spectrometer, On, please.
Rog. Coming on.
Okay, Dave. And I've got High Gain Antenna angles for you when you exit PTC. [Pause.]
Okay. Stand by one, Joe. [Long pause.]
Okay. Go with your High Gain angles.
Roger. High Gain pitch, plus 24; yaw, 264. And, Dave, I've got CSM consumables if you're interested in copying those. [Pause.]
Okay. Go, Joe.
Roger. GET 261 plus 00. RCS total, 38. Quad A, 42; 39, 32, 38. H2 tank: 34, 32, 33. O2 tank: 49, 50, 40. And there's a note on that which reads, "Fat City." Over. [Pause.]
Yeah, man. I guess so. That's pretty even, isn't it?
Yes, sir. [Pause.] And, Dave, a comment...
What a machine.
Roger. A comment: you're being served now by the MOCR shift that witnessed a new endurance record for Apollo flights, being set during the night. [Pause.]
Ohh, that's interesting. We'd forgotten about that. [Long pause.]
And, Endeavour, I'll be standing by for when you're ready to copy down the few changes in your Flight Plan for today. I can bring you up to date over the next 7 hours or so and get all that out of the way. I'm also curious to know if you've had time to listen to any sea shanties from the HMS Endeavour up there. Over. [Pause.]
No. We haven't had a chance to, Joe. Stand by and I'll get my trusty pen out, after we get through with this - coming out of PTC, and we'll do the Flight Plan.
Okay, fine. You should ask your trusty record librarian, Al, where the sea shanties are, if you have time today.
Okay. We were talking about that last night, and came to the realization that we brought all these neat things along, and we hadn't had time to listen to a single one of them.
Not at all surprised to hear it.
I'll tell you, yesterday, we finally got to catch our breath. [Pause.]
You always said the hours are long. [Pause.]
Rog. [Long pause.]
The hours are long but the accommodations are palatial.
Was that the way it went, Dave? [Pause.]
Sounds like you've recovered from all that - the other - couple of last few days, too.
Very nearly.
Houston, this is 15. Standing by to copy Flight Plan update.
Roger, Jim. Good morning. The first...
Good morning, Joe.
...entry should be at 261:42. [Pause.] And it is a - a change in the first register of the DAP load - the time column. We want that to read, 11101. Over. [Pause.]
Give me the time again on that, Joe.
Roger. 261 plus 42. [Long pause.]
Okay. At 261:42, I don't see any DAP information. I see one on 261:35.
I may have done it again, Jim. Let me see. [Long pause.]
Stand by on that. Let's - let's continue on with some of the easier steps. At 262...
Roger. [Laughter.]
...plus 05, it should - that - that - that's 262 plus 05 add "Gamma-ray Gain Step, two steps." [Long pause.]
Understand. At 262:05, Gamma-ray, two steps.
Roger. And at 263:55, under the line "Noun 70," et cetera, add "X-ray to Standby." And at 263:59 delete the Verb 48 line and the DAP load over in the time column. [Long pause.]
Okay; at 263:55, we'll add a step there after the Noun 70, X-ray to Standby; and then, at 263:59, we'll delete the Verb 48 and also delete the DAP load that's in the time column.
Roger. Turning the page to 264:02, the DAP [pause] load in the time column should read, 11101. And at 265...
Okay; understand.
...the DAP load status in the notes column should read, 11101, X1111, and this continues through for 2 hours. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. Understand that 264:00, in time column, changed the DAP load there from all ones to 11101; and then, at 265, the DAP load will be changed the same way to continue for 2 hours. [Pause.]
That's correct, Jim. And moving on to 266:30, delete the "Gamma-ray Gain Step to Shield, On" line. [Pause.]
Okay. 266:30, to - eliminate the Gamma-ray Gain Step.
Roger. Moving to 267 plus 20, add the two steps: "Gamma-ray boom, Retract, talkback barber pole for about 2½ minutes, then gray, and then Off." And the second step, "Gamma-ray Gain Step to Shield, On." [Long pause.]
Okay. Understand, there are two steps there. The first one is Gamma-ray Retract, barber pole for about 2½ minutes, then gray, and then turn it Off. Second one is Gamma-ray Gain Step to Shield, On.
That's correct. Moving to 267 plus 42, change the DAP load in the time column to read 11101, X1111. Over.
Understand, from all ones to 11101.
That's correct. Turning the page to 268:02, the DAP load in the time column, the same change. [Pause.]
Okay. I copy. [Long pause.]
Okay. On the same page, 268:30, Gamma-ray Gain Step, five steps. [Long pause.]
Understand, Gamma-ray Gain Step to five steps. [Pause.]
That's correct, Jim. Now looking at page 3-378, the "UV photos - Trans-Earth Coast," A couple of changes there. About halfway down the page where it reads "two frames, filter 2, exposure time 20 seconds,". [Pause.] Delete that line, and add the line - the two lines, "one frame, filter 2, exposure time 20 seconds; one frame, filter 2, exposure time 2 seconds." [Pause.]
Okay. I have that. Joe. It's kind of our standard change in the UV procedures.
That's correct, Jim. And the mag Metro under the "configure camera" section should be changed to read mag Papa. [Pause.]
Okay. Understand mag Papa.
Okay, Jim. And the last one for you, a biggie, turning over four pages to the "Sextant Photo Test", strike the line "PCM Cable". [Pause.]
Okay. Eliminate PCM cable on - on the Sextant Photo Test.
Roger. [Pause.]
Can we go back now to the very first one? [Pause.]
Jim, I knew you were going to ask that. The first one, I guess, was a small typographical error, and there's no change required there. And, please don't tell Dave about it. He's keeping score against me.
Okay [chuckle].
Endeavour, this is Houston with a forecast weather report for your landing area. They're calling for a high scattered - 2,000 [feet altitude] scattered, 10 miles vis[ibility], winds about 15 knots out of the east-northeast, waves going to 4 feet, and we're predicting no midcourse 6 correction for trajectory reasons. From the weather report none is required for weather reasons. Over.
Gee, that sounds pretty good, Joe. Except we saw a movie about that weather stuff once. [Long pause.]
Rog. We copy that. And, Dave, we do have one question. Is it true that nothing can stop the Army Air Corps? [Pause.]
That's true, Joe. That's true. [Pause.]
I'm beginning to believe it. [Pause.]
Well, that means you're just about qualified. [Pause.]
I'm glad you still have reservations, though. Your Gamma, by the way, is right on 6.5 as close we can tell right now. [Pause.]
Well, that's pretty good. Must be compensating errors along the way somewhere.
Say, Houston; 15.
Go ahead.
We reviewed our entry stowage last night. We're going to do the stowing this morning. And in the process, why, we came up with one extra little bag up here, which we're labeling LM return items, which is essentially the same thing as 14 brought back. And I wonder if you might check with our good FIDO and see if he wants the details of that, or whether maybe Ed Mitchell can give you the general kind of items, and that would be acceptable. But we have one - one bag, which I'm sure you're aware of, and we'll stow it and tell him exactly where we stowed it. And if he wants the details, well, we'll give it to him.
Okay, fine, Dave. We copy that, and pass that information along. I have the morning news report if you're interested in listening.
Rog. Everybody's hooked up and listening. Go.
Roger. This is the news for 6 August, 1971. In the first round in the American Classic at Firestone Country Club, Akron, Ohio, the leaders are Jerry Heard and Mike Hill, both with 3 under par 67s. Arnie Palmer shot a 70 and Nicklaus a 73. The U.S. built its gold medal total to 50 in the Pan Am Games, and they're entering their second week now. Cuba is a distant second with 17 gold medals, but a Cuban set a world record yesterday in the hop, skip, and jump. The record was 57 feet, 1 inch. We're coming up on the first full weekend of national football exhibition games, and New Orleans Saints play the Buffalo Bills; Dallas Cowboys play the L.A. Rams. And these two games are the beginning of an 11-game weekend. I've got the baseball scores. American League East: Yankee's beat Baltimore, 5 to 0; Boston over Detroit, 5 to 4, American League West: Kansas City over Minnesota, 7 to 4; and Oakland edged out Milwaukee, 2 to 1. The National League: Chicago over San Diego, 3 to 0; Pittsburgh beat Montréal, 7 to 2; and Houston 0, the Dodgers 3. The government reports today the latest figures in the nation's unemployment problem, and one private economist predicts the jobless rate probably will show still another rise. Five days after the steel industry and Union agreed on a new contract without a strike, tens of thousands of steel workers have been laid off, and the hearths are cold as users consume steel-strike-preparedness stockpiles. William Martin, Jr., who reorganized the New York Stock Exchange 33 years ago, proposes an overhaul of the entire securities industry. [Pause.]
We want to interrupt here. If we could have Accept, please, we'll provide you with a new state vector.
Oh, that's very good news, Joe. Thank you. We hadn't heard about the LR cubed, but we were hoping it was super-clean. [Pause.]
Roger; and it's your computer.
Rog.
And, an added a note for Al. Alfredo, I'm not sure if you got a report on your bistatic radar experiment. Taylor Howard got very, very clean echoes on both the S-band and the VHF frequencies, and he's busy analysing that data right now.
Very good, Joe. [Long pause.]
Endeavour, this is Houston with a final update concerning the trusty LCRU on the lunar surface. We turned it on yesterday, and it worked beautifully for about 13 minutes. We w - we were panning around, zooming in and out, got a few more good pictures of the - the surrounding mountains, and suddenly we lost the TM [telemetry] downlink. In fact, we lost everything in a very short time, about 1/60th of a second, almost as though someone had turned it off. We tried - we waited awhile and tried to reactivate it, and did such things as send signals back to it to pan around, while we looked carefully on the passive seismometer for evidence of motion. Apparently it was not responding to the signals. The temperatures were completely normal right before it went off the air. We're not exactly sure what happened. Over. [Pause.]
Gee, that's interesting, Joe. It's - you sh - I guess it completely went off, and just didn't get hung up somewhere.
That's right, Dave. It wasn't a mechanical problem. We most likely popped a circuit breaker or something like that. It's a little difficult to sort out.
Would you like us to go back up and check it for you?
Knew you were going to ask. Stand - stand by. [Long pause.]
Joe, I'm - I'm in - I'm interested in hearing you say that the temperatures were normal. One of the things that - Of course, we'll debrief them on when we get back, but Jim and I both noticed that each successive day was warmer than the preceding day. And, on the last day, if you left your hand or something in one position for any period of time, it would really - the suit would really heat up on that particular surface. And I'm surprised that the system ran this long with that temperature up there, because I suspect it really got pretty hot. [Pause.]
Dave, that's interesting comment. By normal, I guess I mean within limits. It apparently was about 90 degrees [Fahrenheit, 32°C] on the LCRU and about 90 de - 92 degrees [F, 33°C] on the camera when it gave up the ghost. However, that's well within its limits, and we don't think that circuit breakers, or whatever, let go because of the temperature. The one thing we did not have sensored, as I understand it, were the - the batt[ery] temperatures of the Rover that was - that was feeding the power into the TV, however. [Pause.]
Gee, 92 sounds pretty cool to us. I - I would have guessed much - much hotter than that. That's a pretty good thermal system on it, if it kept the temperatures down that low.
That's correct. [Pause.]
Or maybe [laughter] Jim mentioned maybe that's centigrade, huh? [Pause.]
Negative on the centigrade, Dave. However, when we turned the camera off at the end of EVA 3, the temperature was up around 122 degrees [F, 50°C]. [Pause.]
Yeah, I'd believe that, easily.
Endeavour, this is Houston. The Surgeon reports that we have good respiratory data from your biomed volunteer, but we have evidence that one of the three EKG leads is open-circuited, either not attached or broken somewhere. And, sometime over the next few hours, we'd like - we'd like you to troubleshoot this for us, please; and, if need be, there is an extra biomed harness in the medicine kit. Over.
Roger. Okay. We'll check into that.
Endeavour, we have the angles.
Rog, Houston.
Good Ship Endeavour, this is Houston. We'd like a crew status report at your convenience, please.
Rog. Stand by.
Okay, Joe, I have the crew status. We all got 8 hours sleep. PRD readings were: Al was 25031, and mine was 08042. Consumables at 261:00; RCS total, 38. Quads: 42, 32, 39 and 38. H2: 34, 32 and 33. O2: 49, 50 and 40. Over.
Okay, Jim. Thank you.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Roger. I've resensored the EKG and appreciate a checkout from the docs down there.
Roger. Stand by.
Good morning, Karl.
Good morning, Al. How are you doing?
Just fine.
Says the EKG looks good down here. Hold one.
Okay.
Al, your new CapCom is just coming up to speed this morning. I understand that there has been a problem with the biomed harness, and they want to know if the one you have on right now is the one that gave trouble shortly before.
That's affirmative. And I did find the loose one.
Okay; we're getting a good signal on you, and I guess that information makes everybody happy down here. Thank you.
Okay.
15, this is Houston. We still have a concern about your OPS pressure and would appreciate it, if it's at all accessible, to have a reading at the present time. [Pause.]
Okay; it's - it's pretty well buried right now, Karl. What's your concern on it?
Well, first of all, they're anxious that the OPS pressure be down close to zero at - at entry, and they'd like to figure out how much they're going to use tonight and how much tomorrow night in order to bring that down. I guess we don't have it tomorrow night. They're - they're anxious to know whether or not it's - we're going to be able to bring down it's pressure in using it tonight. [Pause.]
Okay. I guess it came down to 800 [psi, 5,500 kPa] from 2,000 [psi, 13,800 kPa] last night, but probably came back up. As soon as we get a chance to do some shuffling around here, why, we'll check it and give you a call.
Good enough. Thank you.
Rog. It's sort of down in the bottom of the pile right now; and we're getting ready to start reentry stowage, so we'll be able to - to get to it in a little while.
We understand.
Al, the way people talk down here, they're going to give you a medal for good sightings up - up there. They say that the - the gamma [this is the re-entry angle] from this last series of sightings was 6.55 [degrees], whereas the value we have down here is 6.50.
Roger, Karl.
Houston, 15. You may have seen an - an excursion there as we started the Verb 49 maneuver to PTC, and we're trying to figure it out, too.
We copy.
What was that?
15, Houston. We didn't see any obvious glitches down here, but we're going to go back and look at the data.
Okay. What happened was, we were loading Noun 22 to the Verb 49; and, apparently on the - the last entry, on the third register, we got about a 1-degree-per-second pitchdown pitch rate, and went to SCS, and then back to ch - to CMC, and tried it again, and it worked just fine.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Houston, it looks like we might have got that old 22 degree glitch in the CDU. [Pause.]
We copy. [Long pause.]
And, Houston, right now, we're reading about: 93, 93 and 334 on the ball. [Long pause.]
Roger. [Long pause.]
15, this is Houston. We feel that we can get rid of that discrepancy if you'll do a Verb 40, Noun 20.
Okay, we'll do one of those. [Long pause.]
Yep. Looks like that's what it was.
Dave, we suspect the cause of that glitch back there was possibly due to the fact that you might have loaded a Noun 20 instead of a Noun 22. Is that possible? [Pause.]
We're thinking. Stand by. [Long pause.]
Karl, I guess it's a possibility, but we were both looking at it, and I guess we don't think so, but that's a distinct possibility. [Long pause.]
15, Houston. About all we can say is that everything's looking fine at the moment, and we'll go back and look over the data. We haven't had a chance to do that yet.
Okay. Yes. Roger. Understand. It - it looks fine up here and that - that could have been the problem.
Houston, 15. Talking it over, I guess that must have been a - a Noun 20 load because, I guess as I remember it, the CDU glitches occur in increments of 11. And 11 plus 11 doesn't equal 26, I don't think.
Okay; we copy.
And, Houston, in our present attitude, a yaw CDU change would be converted to a pitch rate, so that sort of all adds up.
Very good.
15, Houston. When you have some time to listen, I have a couple of sentences of comments on the procedure for the - the light flash experiment.
Okay. Why don't you stand by 'til we get our trusty crew all lined up and ready to go.
Very good. [Long pause.]
Incidentally, Dave, as we line them up, one of the changes is that we'd like to keep the cabin lights bright this time.
Oh, you like the lights bright? Okay.
15, Houston. We see indications that the optics aren't zeroed, and we'd recommend that you zero them, with the reminder, of course, to bring the angles down to 10 degrees - less than 10 degrees before you zero them.
Okay; that's - that's standard procedure. We'll get it. Thank you. [Pause.] It's even been written up on the panel for about 8 days now, or so.
Very good.
Okay, Houston. Go ahead with your procedures on the light flash.
Roger. We'd like to have you put the window shades on, as usual, but to leave the cabin lights bright. And what we're going to do is to sort of calibrate one crewman in terms of the degree of a dark adaption required to see the flashes. That would be interesting to know. After you don the eyeshades and give us a mark and go ahead and count things, after a while, you - one of you - and we prefer you, Dave, just to be specific - can expect for us to call up to you to take off the eyeshade for 1 minute. And after a minute we'll do the timing for you, if you like. We'll tell you to put it back on and, in this minute time look around at the lights, get back to sort of - your eyes normally adjusted, then put on the eyeshade again, and - and give us marks as you start seeing things. And that's - that's the only difference from the normal procedure. We would - we would prefer to have all - all the data on the voice downlink, if possible. [Pause.]
Okay. Understand the - open the eyes, and - Stand by one. [Pause.]
And, Houston, we talked over the - the downlink bit, and it's just impractical if we're all going to try and keep up with the comments on where and what we see. It would just be too confusing for you. And I think - if - if you cannot get your data from the tape, we'll do that; but, I think it is much more practical to go ahead and put it on the tape and just inform you of when we get the marks.
Okay, we've had - we've had - we've had some trouble with the tape in the last couple of times around, is the reason the people are sort of saying "Hey, if we could possibly get it down in real time we'd feel happier." [Pause.]
Oh, you - you mean you - you cannot get the data off the tape, huh? [Long pause.]
I guess we've been having trouble with the voice quality on the DSE [Data Storage Equipment], and Gerry just now says, "Hey, let's check it right now. See how it's doing." And we'll let you know in the next few minutes as to what's pref - preferable.
Okay. That's a good idea. [Long pause.]
15, this is Houston. It looks as though the DSE voice downlink is acceptable, now; and we'll do it your way. [Pause.]
Okay. Let us get squared away here and make sure we get all the shades up and all. [Long pause.]
15, one more comment on that DSE voice problem. This is, to some extent, dependent on how well your mikes are adjusted. So make sure that they're in a good position.
Rog. I guess a downlink would probably be the same problem. We'll get them all squared away.
Houston, 15.
Go ahead, 15.
How do the rates look for PTC now?
Just got the word that they look good for spin-up.
Okay.
I think that's another great example of ESP at work.
Okay, Houston; 15. We're experimenting [for light flashes]. [Pause.]
Roger.
It's a quiet morning.
Say again?
It's a quiet morning.
Yes.
Maybe that means that they come from the Sun. Huh?
Hmm.
Very interesting. Or that the window shield's cutting them off.
No, we had the window shields up before.
Did we?
Yes.
Um hum.
Because we had them - the cockpit all dark.
Be dark. Yes.
Yes, that's right. We did. The only difference now is that the Sun's behind...
We're not - we're not pointed at the Sun - Yes. And the Moon's behind us. Some place behind the Sun. Isn't it?
No. No, nobody's behind the Sun to us.
Hey, we - You know, we're not shielded - we're not - Gee, I don't know.
We may not be in orientation in PTC to be looking at the Sun either. Well, that shouldn't make any difference yet. Were we in PTC when we did it before?
[Garble].
Huh?
I think so. Because I remember thinking, "How are they going to figure the attitude?" They'd have to get it off the - the data.
Yes.
Yes, I see. The - the Sun - will soon be behind the Earth, right?
Yes, should be.
So, if the Sun is close to being behind the Earth right now, maybe the Earth will shield it.
Oh, you mean warpage in the pausal tail?
Yes.
That could be. It comes out in a - in a pinwheel fashion.
Although I saw some last night when I went to sleep.
Yes, I did, too.
Yes.
That's good, Jim. Is that an hour? [Laughter.]
[Laughter.] Change the sheet.
Wake up, Jim [laughter].
[Laughter.] [Garble] Houston [laughter]. You're [garble]...
...[garble].
...for minutes.
All you got to do is repeat that 10 times now, Jim.
Boy, that was fast.
Maybe we've been desensitized to them.
[Laughter.]
Houston, 15. We're still here; it just looks like a quiet morning.
Roger. Glad to know that you're still awake. Keep on looking for the cosmic rays.
Looking as hard as we can.
Absolutely nothing. Very amazing.
Yes.
Mark CDR.
Yes, down on the left eye at about 7 o'clock; intensity about 2. Point source of light.
I guess we can get ready then. They're starting to come.
Mark LMP.
Flash at 8 o'clock on the periphery; intensity 2.
Mark CDR. [Long pause.]
It was in the left eye at 6 o'clock at about a third of the way from the center out; intensity 3; point source of light.
You two guys must be shielding me.
Mark CDR.
It was in the left eye about 2 o'clock; a quarter of the way in; intensity 1; point source. Yes, we're taking it all for you, Al.
You must be.
I think Dave's imagining all these.
Got to do something for the [garble].
[Garble] he's gotten to the point where he's conjuring them up on me.
Dedicating my imagination to science.
Right. Protecting all those who go after you.
Wait until you see how many I'm going to see in the last minute [laughter].
Confound that curve.
Mark CMP.
Mark CMP.
Yay!
Left eye; dead center; intensity 2; point source. Only ones I can see are the ones that hit me right between the eyes like a ...
Mark CMP.
Right eye; about 1 o'clock; 2/3rds of the way out; intensity 2; and a little streaking - some towards the center of the eye - about another third of the way down.
Do you have your eyelids closed?
Mark CMP.
Two flashes: one at 9 o'clock in the left eye and one at 6 o'clock in the left eye; both intensity 3. Yes, my eyes are closed, Jim.
Your eyelids are closed.
Yes. Me, too.
Your eyelids aren't going to stop anything.
Don't think so. Just want to get consistent data.
Mark LMP. Flash. One at 4 o'clock, halfway out. Another one at 2 o'clock on the periphery. Intensity 3. [Long pause.]
Mark CMP. [Long pause.]
Two o'clock; almost on the periphery; and intensity between 3 and 4. Bright one.
Mark CMP.
Two o'clock; streak from right to left; centered about the 2 o'clock radial; about halfway out; intensity 2.
Mark LMP.
It was a streak; right eye; moving from the top down toward the bottom, intensity 4.
Maybe we get adapted to it.
Hmm! I suppose so.
You build up an immunity.
Mm-hmm.
Or maybe it's destroyed so many brain cells we don't have any [garble] left for it.
You know, that's right. Maybe that's it. Mmm. Our sensitivity is so dulled...
Yes.
...that we just don't see them anymore.
A lot of people would probably agree with that.
Yes [laughter].
Mmm-hmm.
That's why we're doing them to begin with. Because people are worried about that, I guess.
Well, I wonder if we're the same distance on the trajectory as we were when we did it on the way out?
(Yawn) I don't know.
Is that the idea - to be in the same spatial relation? Yes, we could look...
Mark CMP. [Long pause.]
Right eye; dead center; point source; intensity B.
We could look at the Flight Plan when we get through. The distances are in there.
Mm-hmm. Yes. We could always figure it out.
Mark LMP. [Long pause.]
It was a streak; left eye; top to bottom; intensity 2; it was right at the periphery.
Mark LMP. [Long pause.]
Again it was a streak; it was - appeared to be in both eyes; moving from 1 o'clock toward the center; intensity 3.
Mark LMP. [Long pause.]
A flash; 2 o'clock; periphery; intensity 2.
Mark CMP.
Right eye; 11 o'clock; about halfway out; point source; intensity 3.
Mark CMP.
Left eye; about 10 o'clock, 2/3rds of the way out; point source; intensity 3.
Mark LMP. [Pause.]
Flash; position 2 on the periphery; right eye; intensity 2.
Mark LMP. [Long pause.]
Same position; intensity 4; flash.
15, Houston. Be advised the DSE just ran out tape. If there's anything significant to be said from here on in, say it on the air to ground, please.
Okay. Will do.
Mark LMP. Flash. Four o'clock, about a quarter of the way out. Intensity 3. [Long pause.]
Mark CDR. Right eye; a streak about 3 o'clock to 6 o'clock. Intensity 2. [Long pause.]
Mark CDR. Point source; right eye, 12 o'clock, halfway out. Intensity 2. [Long pause.]
Mark CDR. Right eye; point source; 7 o'clock about half way out; intensity 2.
15, this is Houston. We find an hour's passed now, and we thank you very much for the data, and there's a general question. Since the counting rate was less than previously, is there - is there any impression that you have that the intensity may have been less than previously. Also, the intensity of the individual flashes. [Pause.]
Rog. I think that'd be a general comment that all three of us experienced. [Long pause.]
And, Houston, also, you might note that we all saw flashes last night when we went to sleep - just before we went to sleep, and I guess - we feel like there's a surprising decrease in numbers and intensity today.
Roger. We copy that you feel today's frequency is less than last night's and also that the intensity is less today. [Pause.]
Rog. That's correct. [Pause.]
Thank you very much for the free information. [Pause.]
Okay.
Houston, this is 15.
Go ahead, 15.
Looking back at 264:16, there's a callout there to close the Mapping Camera cover. We did not do that because [of] the extension of the Mapping Camera. [Pause.]
Roger. We concur with you that that was the right action; the one that you took. [Pause.]
Okay.
15, this is Houston. We'd like to set your mind at ease about that attitude glitch [at 264:04:33]. It was indeed due to loading a Noun 20 in place of a Noun 22.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 15. The OPS pressure is 1,000 [psi, 6,900 kPa].
Roger, 15. We copy 1,000 on the OPS pressure. And we have a suggestion down here that may make the OPS - simpler to handle. We'd like to put the hose over its connector there and simply turn the OPS on to bleed down gradually and simply replenish the cabin pressure and then you don't have to bother with you - operating it tonight.
Rog. That's sounds like a pretty good idea. Okay; we'll do that.
Rog. And then everybody will be completely satisfied that it's bled out by the time you reenter.
15, this is Houston with a couple of comments about the SIM bay experiments, if you're willing to listen. [Pause.]
Rog, Houston. Go ahead.
First of all, on the Gamma-ray experiment, Dr. Arnold reports that Al Worden probably performed the first recorded repair of a scientific instrument in space, because earlier in that day he'd began to experience some problem with excess noise in the Gamma-ray experiment. And when Al went out in the EVA - we don't know what happened there - but at the end of the EVA, the Gamma-ray cleared up and has been doing beautifully ever since. You must have given it a pretty good kick there, Al.
Well, not - not only is he a plumber, he's an electrician as well.
Roger. On the X-ray Spectrometer, the work you've been doing on the galactic sources of X-radiation has - is already showing considerable interest. And, in particular, the Scorpius X-ray 1 data gives us a longer continuous observation of this source than we've ever had before and shows a fairly long period variation, whi - which - I with - I should put in a word of caution - which still might be instrumental, but looks real, and was previously unrecorded and has the - has Dr. Adler rather excited. And I'm sure the other as - astronomers will be much interested also. Indeed, we may go back to that source later today, although I don't think that's clearly decided yet. [Pause.]
Rog. That sounds interesting.
And otherwise, I guess - that - that's about the most exciting news from the SIM bay.
Okay. Very good. We're ready to talk about entry stowage, if you'll get out your - your map and your little legend there...
Okay.
...on where things go and we'll run down the line here.
Okay. We've - incidentally - one more comment, the Mass Spectrometer, on the retraction sequence yesterday, showed us no increase in contamination, which was something of a surprise. And it's probable that we might try that once more today to make sure that that wasn't some sort of instrumental difficulty there. Maybe we just have a cleaner spacecraft atmosphere than we thought, though.
Yes, from what Al said when he was looking around out there, it sounded to me like things were pretty clean.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, 15. If you will turn off your squelch it will help, because we may occasionally have periods in - when comm is rather weak. And, otherwise, go ahead.
Okay. What - what we use as a reference is the Entry Stowage Map, spacecraft 112, 26 July 1971, which is in the front of our Flight Plan. And, if you have that in front of you, why, I'll just go through that and give you the additions, deletions, and changes, of which there are very few. [Pause.]
Okay. We're [pause] - Stand by one moment.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay. Go ahead. [Pause.]
Okay. A-1 is stowed as prescribed there. Top of A-1 has a bag - a decontam bag in which we have sample container number 2, for 23 pounds, and the LM return items. [Pause.]
Roger.
A-2 is as you have listed. [Long pause.]
Roger.
And, on top of A-2, we have the ISA decontam bag, for 64 pounds.
We copy.
Okay. A-3, A-4, A-5 and A-6 are as you have on your list right now.
We copy.
A-7 is as you have on your list, with the addition of the LM DAC and the LM - 70 millimeter camera that failed on the surface, which we thought you might like to take a look at.
Right. Both of those are - are added items, I take it.
That's correct. [Pause.]
We copy.
Side of A-7 is the EVA umbilical and bag, as per - prescribed.
Rog.
Top of A-7 is a sample collection bag - Oh, stand by. [Long pause.]
Okay. Let me - let me go back and make a correction here, Karl. Look over in the left-hand column where it says top of A-1, and scratch "Sample collection bag number 2."
Okay.
And then go back to your right-hand column there. On top of A-7, we have a decontam bag with sample collection bag number 2 and the BSLSS bag, for a total of 48 pounds. [Pause.]
We copy. [Pause.]
Okay.
The 35-millimeter bracket in the bag, we're going to put that in the...
Could I clarify that - both of those bags together were 48 pounds, or do I also put over the 20 - the 23 pounds we had on A-1?
That's going to go in there.
No, the total of collection bag number 2 plus the BSLSS is 48 pounds.
I understand.
And you can scratch the collection bag number 2 for 23 off of A-1.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay. And then in A-8, it's stowed as prescribed [radio noise] with the exception of one less lightweight headset, which is some - somewhere on the Moon.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay. On the side of the next page in the left column, on the side of A-8 in the bag, as you have there, with the addition of the core tube pole. [Pause.]
Say again.
Okay. I - I figured that would be a strange one. On the side of A-8 in bag, there are four items there, and one additional item has been added. The drill core-stem, which we just labelled as a core tube pole, because it looks like a pole.
Roger. That's the three-foot core stem.
That's correct. [Pause.]
Okay.
And A-9 is collection bag number 3, for 30 pounds.
We copy.
B-1, B-2 and B-3 are as you have them listed.
Okay.
B-5 is rock box number 1, for 36 pounds; and B-6 is rock box number 2, for 40 pounds.
Okay. We copy.
And then B-5 and 6, B-8, L-2 and L-3 are as you have them listed.
Okay.
And R-1 is the Flight Data File and the LM PPK. [Pause.]
We copy.
And then, on the next column, they're all as you have listed. From the top; R-2, R-3, and in R-3 we have the entire LM data file. And we've taken R-12 out of R-3 and put it in another spot.
Okay.
R - far - R-4 is as you have it, as is R-5, R-6, R-8, R-11, R-13.
We copy.
Okay. U-1 will only have one temporary stowage bag in it.
We copy.
U-2 will have the items listed, plus the accessory bag, in which we have - the contaminated gloves. And I'll read you a list of those items, if you're ready to copy.
Okay. Go ahead.
Have one set of EV gloves and one set of IV gloves, the tethers - the - the waist tethers, paper towels. And I guess that's about it.
Roger.
U-3 is as you have prescribed there.
Roger. [Pause.]
Stand by one, Karl. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston. Ready to go with the right-hand column. U-4 is as prescribed, and R-2 is as prescribed.
Roger.
Okay. The PGA bag is as prescribed with the following additions. First we have - in - in the bag where we'll put the lunar sample - we'll have R-12, with the CSM Malfunction Procedures and Systems Book. [Pause.]
We copy.
And the lunar sample is bag number 7, for 24 pounds. [Pause.]
Roger.
Okay. And then, everything else is as prescribed. And the CMP PGA will be in the sleep restraint under the right-hand couch with two TSBs, which are now acting as waste containers. [Pause.]
Roger. And that - that location was where again?
Underneath the right-hand couch, strapped down as - as it's prescribed. We just wanted to note that, within that sleep restraint with the PGA, will also be two TSBs.
Roger. We copy.
And that's just light waste material in those TSBs. And I guess that pretty much takes care of it, unless you have any questions. [Long pause.]
Thank you, Dave. We copy all of that.
Okay. And, as you go through it and look it over, if you have any questions or anything you would like us to shuffle around, why, let us know.
Okay. We sure will. Thanks.
...to have some wet packs. I think I'll finish what I have, and then I still - Yes, I'll hit the wet packs.
You got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 wet packs. Hey, we're in...
That's enough to keep us alive.
Oh, yes.
Do we have - How many deals do we have to mark? Two?
Just two. Let me stick that in there, too.
Great. I think, Just to clean this place out a little bit, I'm going to take some of these bacon squares and throw them.
Yes [laughter]. It's probably a good idea.
As a matter of fact, we could consolidate a lot of this stuff.
Yes.
We could use these bags for garbage bags.
Yes.
You dropped yours.
God damn! Dropped it on the floor. Lord a'mighty.
Get what you want?
Yes.
Oh, a little spaghetti. I had some for breakfast; it wasn't bad. A vast spectrum.
Two meals tomorrow, breakfast, and two more meals today...
One - two - Uh-oh, we'll have to eat - to eat fast, to eat it all up.
No, I don't think so [laughter]. I think we're going to be there.
Do you guys think...
We've got 10 wet packs.
Ten wet packs, huh?
Yes, one for lunch, one for dinner, and - one for tomorrow.
Want a wet pack, Jimmy?
Yes, I'll probably take one as long as you got them out.
Anybody tried the beef stew?
Yes, I have a beef stew here.
Mine was pretty good.
I'll try one.
You want to try one?
Yes.
Pretty interesting.
Have a wet pack.
Okay.
[Garble] get the drinks out here.
And right now you got a P52.
Oh, really.
Just to stir you up a little bit.
Okay. Here's the beverage.
Okay. What kind of beverage do you want here, Dave?
I can't take anything but water, grape, and cocoa. I'm through with that other stuff. Somebody ought to...
There's one grape left.
Well, you can have it.
Getting lucky.
I don't care. I'll just drink water.
Oh, I - I'd like the grape, too.
I can't take anymore. I've had 21 days of those juices, and that's all I can handle.
Yes. I'm with you, pal. I feel that way about a lot of this stuff. Well, what do you want to drink, Al? Did you get your drink?
No, not yet.
Do you want an orange?
Yes, I don't guess there's any pineapple left, is there?
There's a pineapple-orange.
Is there a pineapple-orange in there?
Yes.
Yes, that's what I'd like.
No, I take that back. There's an orange-grapefruit. There's no - no pineapple. What's your choice?
Oh, I'll have an orange.
Okay.
Is that P52 due now?
Yes.
Okay. Jim, put these back.
15, we have your torquing angles. [Pause.]
Ro - Roger.
15, this is Houston. The next several attitudes are going to require us to use Omni Delta, and we suggest that you go Manual and Wide and stow the High Gain Antenna.
Okay. We'll do that and go to Omni Delta.
Apollo 15, this is Houston. We'd like to have you retract the Mass Spectrometer boom for 85 seconds.
Understand. Retract the Mass Spec. Boom for 85 seconds. [Pause.]
Yes, I will. Soon as I get the door closed here.
Roger. Get you then.
That's affirm, and then we'll leave it there for about 5 minutes. We'll cue you when to extend it again.
Okay.
Okay, retracting now.
[Garble].
Huh?
Screwed up.
Your stuff.
This the way it goes in?
Yes, it's getting a little tricky. Ought to get that thing in there, though.
Does it go in all the way?
Yes, put it in.
Yes.
[Garble].
That's funny. Looks like it fits in there pretty well. Oh, what's in - Okay. You're going to put the camera on anyway.
Got [garble] we can start.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay, we're starting. Noun 35. Starting now.
Guess we might as well maneuver, huh?
I don't know. Why do you want to go early?
Why not? There's nothing in - the Flight Plan [garble] Nothing in here [garble] that I can see.
Well, how about - explain this.
Gamma-ray gain. Got to be there by...
Not until 50 - 30 minutes from now.
Yes, that's right.
I guess we're going to dim the lights and do all this on time. Rather sit for - we can get a flashlight out.
[Garble].
Well, we'll see. One minute. Let's see. I don't know why - cabin lights are not going to affect it anyway with that cover over it.
[Garble].
Says we're supposed to use the PCM cable. How can we shoot - that PCM cable for the 250? The EL? It won't reach this window, will it? And we'll have the Nikon in the other window.
Didn't we have that this morning?
Well, it's ruined the other things, Dave. That's for the sextant photos.
(Sneeze)
Solid 24 minutes of activity, isn't it?
We got MAG N on there. And I still have a MAG way back here with a - color - Q. They suggested T, but...
(Yawn)
[Garble] Q [garble].
Might as well.
[Garble].
I'll look in this TSB over here.
Look in - in U-1 back there.
[Garble].
Roger. You messed up 190 [garble]...
15, this is Houston. Would you please extend the Mass Spec. boom all the way out again.
Tell him yes.
Roger. In work.
And I have a T-start for the lunar eclipse photo's when you're ready to copy.
Okay. [Pause.] Go ahead with the T-start.
T-start for lunar eclipse photo's. 268:59:47. [Pause.]
Understand, 268:59:47.
That's correct, Al. [Long pause.]
Yes, my camera's still up here, Dave.
Okay, good.
Hey, we're going to have to rush.
Huh? I know it. Why - logical.
Okay, 59, 47, [garble].
How long is that from now?
Three minutes.
Well, why don't we go ahead to U - Why don't you go...
Al, we had a question on the Mass Spectrometer and it may be too late. Was it possible to confirm by visual look through the window that it was retracted? [Pause.]
Negative, Karl. You can't determine that it's retracted. All you can determine is that it's full out.
Rog. Well, when it was retracted, you wouldn't be able to see it. That's what I'm asking. Is it possible for you to take a look now and see if it slowly comes into view. [Pause.]
You want...
Okay, he wants you to watch and see if it does come full out.
Roger. In other words, you're asking to a confirm that it does come full out.
All right,...
That's correct.
...look down...
Okay.
...and if you can't see it, it was retracted. If you can see - You can't see it then.
Yes.
[Garble].
Sure I can. Okay, Jim, I'll go ahead maneuver you. You're the act again.
Okay.
Let's see a Flight Plan.
Well, if we can't find that other mag, Al, we might have to use this one. Got the one MAG here of black and white from the LM. It has got to be...
Just to clarify...
...very high speed.
...our question, Al, the main question was just to confirm whether or not it did go out of your field of view. Did it actually move from the full - from the full-extended position? Since we saw no change in the data when we retracted it during the test yesterday, there is a suspicion that, even though you actuated the switch, that for some reason it didn't retract.
Understand. [Pause.]
I see - there's one boom extended.
Okay. It's fully extended now, Karl. But it may be too late. It may have already been out by the time we looked.
Roger.
Is that talkback barber pole or gray?
Gray.
Yes.
It kind of oscillates back and forth, doesn't it?
Karl doesn't realize we don't want to get too much UV. He must think we watch out that window every time we extend and retract it.
Hmm.
Yes, no kidding.
15, this is Houston. We have a rather extensive update to the Flight Plan. And also, a change to the procedure for the contamination photos, which we can read up to you at your convenience. [Pause.]
Okay. Does it involve the things going on here in the next couple of hours?
It's pertinent beginning at 271. [Pause.] We probably ought to get it in before the press conference at 270.
Okay. Stand by one. [Long pause.]
Okay. Go ahead, Karl
Okay. If you've got the Flight Plan out, we go over to 271 hours. And at 271:20, just under S-Band Aux TV Science, we add Verb 49, maneuver to contamination photo attitude. [Pause.] The attitude is 014, 195, 016; High Gain [Antenna]; pitch, minus 23; yaw, 252. [Pause.]
Okay. At 171:20 [means 271:20] just after S-band Aux TV Science, Verb 49 to 014, 195, 016; High Gain; pitch, minus 25 - 23; and the yaw, 252.
Roger. Just after that, we delete "Mass Spectrometer, Ion Source, Off", and in the space there, add "Configure for urine dump." [Pause.]
Rog. Delete the Mass Spec. and Ion Source, Off, and configure for urine dump. Go.
Okay. Delete the next one, two, three, four lines, but we - and that brings us to Gamma - Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, Off, which we leave in.
Rog. Delete four and leave in the Gamma-ray Gain Step, Shield, Off. Go.
Delete all of the rest of that page. And add at 271:40, Verb 48, 11101, 01111, and P52, option 3. [Pause.]
Okay. 271:40, Verb 48, 11101, 01111, and a P52, option 3.
Roger. And at 271:45, we add Gamma-ray Boom Deploy, 41 seconds, then Off. Gamma-ray Gain Step, Center, and start contamination photos. [Long pause.]
Okay. 271:45, Gamma-ray Boom Deploy, 41 seconds, then Off. Gamma-ray Gain Step to Center. Start the contamination photos.
And there's a note on the photos that you begin to dump according to the photo procedures, which are - I have an update to that I'll give you later. And that we dump the water to 40 percent, in order to have the right weight at entry. [Pause.] Roger. It's important that we don't go below 40 percent on the water dump. [Pause.]
Okay. Understand. Dump according to photo procedures and the water dump to no less than 40 percent for entry.
That's affirmative. On the next page, 272 hours and zero minutes, we - I - I presume you know that we're not doing the midcourse correction 6. We cancelled the P52 there. And we keep the H2 purge line heater on, but we cancel the P30 external Delta-V. We cancel the Verb 49 maneuver, we cancel the next one, two, three, four, five, all the way down to the H2 and O2 fuel cell purge, which we keep.
Okay. Understand. Keep the H2 purge line heater, cancel the P52, and the set of lines below H2 line heater on, and keep the H2/O2 fuel cell purge.
Roger. And at 272:28, a note that you should be ending the contamination photos at that point.
Say again.
2 - 272:38. [Long pause.]
Okay. 272:38, end contamination photos. Go ahead.
Right. At 42 we cancel - we delete the waste water dump, since we've already done it. And at 42 we add: "Start the Mass Spec. boom test." and the procedures are to be read up in real time. At 58 we cancel the midcourse 6. [Long pause.]
At 273:01 we...
Okay. At 272:47, that's the - hold on. Let me read it back. 272:42 the Mass Spec. boom test procedures in real time, and cancel MCC-6. Go ahead.
Roger. At 273:01, we cancel the burn status report and we add: "X-ray experiment, On. Alpha/X-ray Covers, Open, and record the GET." [Long pause.]
Okay. 273:01, X-ray experiment, On, Alpha/X-ray Covers, Open, and record the GET. Go ahead.
Roger. At 03, we delete the Gamma-ray, X-ray, alpha particle, MSO, On. And down at 273:47, we add Gamma-ray Boom, Deploy. [Long pause.]
Okay. A deletion at 273:00 - or 03, the four items there and then Gamma-ray Boom, Deploy, at 273:47. Go ahead.
Roger. And one final item on 274:05, in the Mass Spectrometer instructions there, the discriminator should be Low instead of High. [Pause.]
Okay. 274:04 Mass Spec. discriminator, Low vice High.
Roger. And if you have the time, I can give you the update on the contamination photography, which is on photo 25 and 26 in the back of volume 1 of the Flight Plan.
Stand by one, please. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston. Let's hold off on the updates of those other photos, so we can get squared away for the eclipse photos.
Roger.
