15, this is Houston. Your astronomer CapCom is getting curious to know whether you're seeing anything of the lunar eclipse. Anything visible?
Oh, sure, we've seen it come down to about half to about one-fifth illumination at the present time, relative to the Sun's illumination.
Roger. And what percent of the disk is covered now?
Stand by.
Okay, Karl. Looks like about 9/10ths of the disk is covered at the present time, and we've been taking the pictures all along. It's a very pretty sight out there.
Roger. Sounds like you're getting close to total eclipse there. Hey, we note down here that in your Free mode you are drifting somewhat in pitch and you are about 5 degrees off now. The recommendation is to go Auto and stop the drift if you can and cycle back to Free before you take your next photo. If there is anything you can do to correct the pointing it might be a good idea.
Okay. Right now those photos are handheld, so we'll get to it when we get to the Nikon.
Okay.
Houston, 15. The Moon's in the shadow now and we have a variation in color from a - almost a light gray to a burnt orange from one side of the Moon to the other. Almost like the old harvest Moon, except that I'm not sure there's any atmosphere up here yet.
Roger. We copy.
Houston, 15. We've finished the photos, and Al had the Moon in the reflex part of the Nikon all the way, so I'm sure the pointing was okay.
Very good.
Right now the Moon is sort of - varies from sort of a very pale orange to a good deep burnt orange on one side and a very gradual change. And I hope the - the photos come out because it sure - certainly be pretty.
Very good. It sounds like a beautiful view from up there. You've seen a lunar eclipse of the Moon twice as big as anyone else has ever seen such an eclipse.
That's very interesting, and it certainly is a - a pretty view. It'd be a - a great place for somebody like you to come up and use your trained eye to interpret all this and understand it.
Sounds like it would be fun, someday.
I see you have your EMS entry check coming up. If there is any chance of my slipping in this change of procedure on contamination cloud photography I'd be pleased to - at this point.
Okay, give us a couple of minutes to reconfigure here. We'll have time to do that.
Okay, fine. I'll stand by for your word.
Okay, Houston. Go with the contamination cloud photography update.
Roger, Dave. Are we on photo 25?
Photo 25. Go.
Okay, the reason for this change is that we have to use the DAC, instead of the Nikon, since we've run out of Nikon film. The first change is under procedure - one, configure camera; we go down to the second line in the CM4, et cetera, we X that out, and we substitute - CM4...
Stand by one, Karl. We want to find out if we have any more Nikon film. We may have some.
Okay.
15, Houston. Our records show that you will be out of Nikon film when you finish the lunar eclipse photography, and we'd prefer that you use it for the lunar eclipse.
Does that include mag W.
Stand by.
Oh, disregard that. We just found a - a little note on mag W. It says "Do not load in camera." I guess that takes care of that. Go ahead with your update.
Okay, fine. The basic specs there in - are - We're using window 4/DAC - D-A-C/18 /VHBW -bracket, M-I-R for mirror, PCM pic cable. Parenthesis, T1, 1/1,000, infinity, 24 feet per second.
Okay. DAC/18/VHBW-bracket, mirror, PCM cable, T1 1/1,000, infinity, and 24 frames per second. Go.
Correct. The next line, it's magazine H, magazine Hotel, and magazine - and instead of frame number, it's magazine per cent to be filled in there.
Roger. Hotel and per cent. Go.
Okay. Completely delete number 2, and substitute instead the following. "Utility Power, On, cover lens, DAC On, 2 seconds." Change shutter to "1/60;" change frame rate to "Time."
Okay. "Utility Power, On; cover lens; DAC, On, 2 seconds," change shutter to "1/60th," frame rate to "Time," in place of the number 2 you have. Go ahead.
Roger. In step 3, we delete "Inhibit all jets," and, at the end, we add "CMC Mode, Free."
Roger. Delete "Inhibit all jets," and add "CMC Mode, Free" at the end. Go ahead.
Roger. At the - at the end of step 4, before, "Repeat 4-frame sequence," we write "CMC Mode, Auto." And we delete "Repeat 4-frame"...
Okay. CM...
We - we - we - we delete the "Repeat 4-frame sequence."
Okay, step 4. Add "CMC Auto" and delete "Repeat 4-frame sequence." Go ahead.
Roger. Step 5. Instead of T plus 6 plus 6:30, we - it's T plus 3:30, 3 plus 30. Dump waste water...
Roger. T plus 3:30 vice T plus 6:30.
Roger. And it says "Waste water or urine," it's really "Waste water and urine." The - and we dump...
And vice or.
Go ahead, and - Okay, and we dump to 40 percent as you've been previously advised. Also a part of 5, add "Repeat step 4 (damp rates)."
Okay. In step 5, add "Repeat step 4 and damp rates, parenthesis." Go.
Step 6, the time there is not 26 plus 30, but it's 28 plus 30. Also...
Roger; 28 plus 30 vice 26 plus 30.
Roger. At the bottom, we delete "Repeat 4-frame sequence," and we add the following: "T plus 32 plus 0; CMC Mode, Auto," and below that "Repeat step 4 (damp rates)."
Okay. At the end of step 6, can - cancel "Repeat 4-frame sequence," and add "T plus 32 plus 0, CMC, Auto," and then "Repeat step 4 and damp rates."
Roger. On step 7, it's "T plus 43" instead of 48; and, at the end, delete "Repeat 4-frame sequence," and add "CMC Mode, Auto."
Okay. Step 7 is "T plus 43" and delete the "Repeat 4-frame" and add "CMC, Auto." Go.
Roger. Step 8. We delete "Enable all jets," and what we record is the magazine percent. And that's the end of the correction.
Okay. Step 8, delete "Enable all jets," and add percent instead of frames.
Roger. That's got it.
Alrighty we'll do all those.
15, this is Houston. Sorry to tell you, but I made a couple of errors in that read-up. Can we make it two corrections?
Okay. Stand by one, please, Karl.
Okay, Karl; where are the corrections?
It's photo 25.
Okay. I'm on photo 25.
Right. At the end of step 5 and step 6, I put in a little statement saying "Repeat step 4, damp rates." That's really meant to say, "Repeat step 3," which is "damp rates," in both cases.
Okay, understand.
15, Houston.
Go ahead, Karl.
Guys, at the end of photo 26, when you get through with this sequence, requesting 2 seconds of protect frame, also.
Okay. I...
Okay, got you.
15, Houston. have a lunar eclipse photo PAD on your Flight Plan, page 384, when you're ready.
Stand by, Dick.
Okay. I'm ready to copy the photo PAD on the lunar eclipse.
Okay. 270:49:53.
Roger. 270:49:53.
Roger.
15, we'd like to have Omni Charlie.
Omni Charlie.
Percentage on the mag?
Okay.
Trim and call it 75.
Okay, we're moving. Stable DAC. G&N Power coming back to AC 1. CMC Mode, Auto, Dave? A Verb 49 maneuver to the lunar-eclipse attitude. I wonder - I guess we better be in that attitude - for the press conference. Okay. You ready?
15, Houston. We'd like to get the High Gain up. Pitch, 22; Yaw, 261.
Say, buddy!
Stand by; we're maneuvering.
Stand by; we're maneuvering.
The numbers, Jim.
Okay; 040, plus 011, plus 041.
Forty, ll, and 41. Right?
That's right.
What time's the chronometer say?
Twenty after.
Yes.
Okay, Houston. Are your High Gain angles for the sextant photos or for the lunar eclipse photo attitudes?
Sorry about that, Dave. When you complete this maneuver, they're in your Flight Plan. Pitch, minus 22; Yaw, 227.
Rog.
Oh, yes. That's not bad. Not a bad picture. Oops!
15, we'd like to have Omni Bravo.
Omni Bravo.
Can you get that for him, Jim? Omni Bravo?
Oh.
I'll get it...
Omni Bravo.
Okay.
It's looking up.
Let's see...
Wait.
Yes, let me get it.
What say to open all the windows and get a little light in here, huh?
Yes.
Turn all the floods up all the way.
Yes.
What time's?
Yes.
One guy here.
Let's see if this controller wants to take up.
One guy here. Here, I got it, Jim. Why don't you come on down?
Come down now?
Yes. Sit on my urine hose. Keep the...
Sit on urine hose and keep it down. The controller, we can stick under the couch - for now. This moose is in the way.
Too much gravity.
Get over in the - put your feet'on the couch and sit down.
Well, someone's going to have to get up and get the switch.
What switch?
Science...
I'll get it.
TV switch.
Yes, it's got to go Transmit on the TV.
Yes.
Let's see if this all is going to work. No, we've got to shift it over - away from the corner. Yes, okay. Hold on to that.
Okay, it looks like we're in attitude. Al?
Right.
And we got to get the high gain going there.
Okay. It's not in the press con - shoo - it's not in here.
It's in there for the - the maneuver to the - yes, the eclipse attitude.
Let's see, you ought to try and move those hoses somewhere, Jim. Because you're going to end up having to be further back in the corner, I think. This thing needs to come - Great. I don't - Why don't you come - You get down...
What's wrong?
Taped right now, but I think...
Yes.
Yes, it needs to come over this way more. It's not going to go any further on the other side of the bulkhead there.
Yes.
See, because I'm - I'm in the far - no. Jim, can you get down? And let's see how it's going to work.
15, Houston. Give us Auto and Narrow on the High Gain, please.
Whew!
Roger. Auto and Narrow.
You want the front end to come this way a little? You want the front end to come this way?
No, I guess it's all right, if I can - It - it - There.
It's reflected. I mean there's not...
Yes, that's what I made it for. Pick up behind here. No, right behind here.
Tell you one thing. I hope we can turn the lights up.
Yes. Might help.
Lights all up?
Yes. Oh, put it up it.
Al, you take that little bit and we'll put it on the patch.
Okay.
Okay. Yes, that's fine. How's that?
You got it, Jim. Fix it.
You see a patch, Al?
Yes.
Okay.
Okay, there you go.
No, I don't want it.
See there? It's going to be hitting it. By gads, I'll Just hold it on the patch.
Maybe.
I'm in charge of light - light - light effect there...
Light, yes.
on the patch.
Light my own.
You want me to turn it on at the right time, Bob?
Huh?
No, I think that's all right. There. Maybe you ought to come over this way a little bit. You're up there, like you're hiding in a corner.
There you go.
There. No, I don't think you need that on the patch, do you?
No.
You still got to look at the stupid camera.
No, it doesn't - shows my face up there.
What do you mean?
Okay.
We'll keep it available in case somebody wants to look at my face.
Houston, 15. You ready down there?
Well, it's in TV already. Who put it in TV?
Roger, 15...
I put it in TV.
We're close to ready. Are you ready for the big press conference?
That goes Transmit.
Rog. We're ready. Anytime you want to go to transmit, let us know.
Okay. You can go ahead to transmit.
Roger.
Roger. We are. I got 3 seconds, 2 seconds, 1 second. How's that? There.
Except for - move your wire, Jim.
That a boy, now. See? They get it all. Okay, Houston, talk to us. We're all here. Except how does it...
Hey, 15, we're getting a beautiful picture coming through.
Yes.
Very good.
Roger. Go ahead with your questions.
It's probably blank as hell.
Roger. We'll - we'll admire the beautiful picture for - for a few minutes here.
this one.
lens?
Yes, that's been done.
Deke just passed out from the shock, incidentally.
Do we look that scroungy?
Yes - yes. No, we look so good.
Mmm!
He probably can't believe it.
Yes.
It's just because we haven't shaved in 2 weeks.
Is that a fact?
Yes.
Okay, fellas. I have a preliminary statement to make here. The questions you will be asked in this news conference have been submitted by newsmen here at the Manned Spacecraft Center who've been covering the flight. Some of the questions they raised have been answered in your communications with - with Mission Control, but the public-at-large has not necessarily heard them. The questions are being read to you exactly as submitted by the newsmen, and in an order of priority specified by them.
Hmm.
Question number 1. This last week, we have shared scores of exciting moments with you. Which single moment would you most like to live again, and is there any moment which you would never like to repeat?
Well, I guess we all probably have a different idea of which would be the single most exciting moment of the flight, and maybe we'll just run through it one at a time. I guess the most impressive moment I can remember is standing up on Hadley mountain - Hadley Delta, and looking back at the plain and seeing the LM and the rille and Mount Hadley, and the whole big picture in one - one swoop. And I think we've got some pictures for you from up there, and I believe the TV was running at the same time, and I think that was probably the most impressive sight that I've ever seen. Al?
I guess I'd have to say - sort of, two events occurred which were exciting, for different reasons, and I guess they were really kind of the highlights of - of the flight for me. One was, right after LOI, when we got our first look at the Moon, and it was a fantastic, spectacular sight. And the other, I guess, was when TEI burned so beautifully, and right after TEI, that was an awfully good feeling.
Okay. Well, I guess there were a great many new thrills for me, and the one that was most impressive though, was the lift-off. It began the flight, and I knew that I was going into space after a few years of waiting and training. And then, as far as the event that I would not like to - to repeat again, was probably the time when I fell down in front of the TV, when we were deploying the Rover.
Let me get your mike.
Question number 2. Near Spur crater, you found what may be "genesis" rock, the oldest yet collected on the Moon. Tell us more about it.
Well, I think the one you're referring to was what we felt was almost entirely plagioclase or perhaps anorthosite. And it was a small fragment sitting on top of a - a dark brown larger fragment, almost like on a pedestal. And Jim and I were both quite impressed with the fact that it was there, apparently waiting for us. And we had hoped to find more of it, and, I'm sure, had we more time at that site, we would have been able to find more. But I think this one rock, if it is, in fact, the beginning of the Moon, will tell us an awful lot. And we'll leave it up to the experts to analyse it when we get back, to determine its origin.
Question number 3. Apollo 15 is already being described as one of the great events in the history of science. Aside from the crystalline rock, what other findings at Hadley-Apennine seem most important to you?
Jim? Why don't you answer that?
I guess, immediately, I think of the orientation, or organization that was revealed in the side of Mount Hadley. There's 14,000 feet vertical relief of vast mountain face exposed to us. And there was layering in there that was most impressive for the total 14,000 feet, and we commented on the number of beds we could see. That really impressed me, that you could have that much organization in - on a large mountain on the Moon.
Question number 4. This was the toughest landing area we have attempted to - to reach on the Moon. Describe what it was like, flying into it.
Well, I think, to begin with, we had every confidence that we could get to the landing site. The trajectory had been modified such that we had adequate clearance over the mountains. And the first sight I had out the window was somewhere around probably 9 or 10,000 feet, as we passed down below the upper elevations of Mount Hadley. And I could see Mount Hadley to my left before we pitch - pitched over and saw the plain at Hadley, and that was probably as impressive sight - a sight as I've seen. The landing itself, once we pitched over, was somewhat of a surprise in that the - the cratering was much more subtle than we had expected. There was a great lack of any large fragments or boulders on the surface. It was apparently quite smooth, and those rather deep craters, which we had anticipated using as landmarks - because of their subtlety - did not appear quite as readily as we had hoped. I think we did recognize our relative position east-west of the rille because of the size of the rille itself. I think we were a little off on the north-south, but close enough to handle the traverses in the Rover. And, I think that having a vehicle such as that - as that enables us to go into more complicated, difficult landing areas, because it's not necessary to land on an exact point. We can take advantage of our mobility and land anywhere within a certain prescribed area which was initially our goal on this flight.
Question number 5 for Al Worden. In lunar orbit, you too carried out geologic observations; for example, you reported cinder cones. Could you discuss this and other observations from 60 miles up?
Yes, the comment on the cinder cones was one of color, but we noticed particularly on - on some of the lighter part of the back side that many, many of the craters that we flew over were filled with what appeared to be lava. There seemed to be a great number of lava flows in the mare area, particularly Mare Imbrium. Mare Imbrium seems to be a - just a - countless numbers of - of lava flows, which were all apparently very thin and very fluid. And you can see - you can just count number - numbers of flow fronts covering Mare Imbrium. So, we got, I think, quite a distinct impression of a - of a - of a great deal of volcanism around the Moon. And, in some particular isolated area such as the Littrow area and such as areas like probably the Aristarchus plateau, there's a great deal of volcanism and some cinder cones and - and certainly a lot of lava flows.
Question number 6. Do you feel that the workload during your three lunar surface excursions was too demanding? You appeared at times to be reaching the limit of your endurance. Any recommendations for Apollo 16?
I think any time you set out on a task such as the one we had, you're bound to, at certain times, get a little tired, which I think we probably did. However, I think we came back and I don't think we ever reached anywhere near the limit of our physical endurance. I think Apollo 16 probably has everything in hand; it's just a matter of conditioning yourself. Jim and I have discussed it since we got back on board the Endeavour and concluded that our training is what really prepared us, and the many hours we spent during geology field trips and in simulations at the Cape in our suits, we feel was the factor which really contributed to being able to proceed with those duration EVA's. I see no problem in the future with conducting three successive 7-hour EVAs. Neither one of us were particularly physically tired. I think the fatigue is really in the - the mental regime, in which you're concentrating very intensely for 7 hours, and you're pressing to do your best all the way through and - and keep your eyes open to make the appropriate observations and gather the samples. And I think its really more of a mental factor than a physical factor.
Question number 7. You described the Lunar Rover as a bucking bronco on the Moon. Would you elaborate and assess the Rover's performance and tell us what changes you recommend for the 1972 model?
Jim, you want to talk about that? Why don't you go ahead? Not too hard, though.
Well, there were several times there when we were riding along where we'd hit on a sizable bump and you could - you could see the - the wheels come off the ground and then float through the air and - but Dave should comment more as far as the - the driving. And it was really like a bucking bronco, that's true, because I was strapped in. As you know, Dave had to strap me in because I had some trouble with my seatbelt, but I - I really did feel like I was on a - a bucking bronco.
I think I might add that it's a - it's a very stable machine, but because of the - the one-sixth gravity, it tends to float. In - in the simulations we ran in Houston, we saw the same amplitude or same degree of bouncing but a different damping. In other words, the - the vehicle would come off the ground, or one wheel normally would come off the ground, and it would take somewhat longer to return to the ground than in one g. And I think it's just a matter of being - becoming accustomed to the - to driving. It's a very stable vehicle; the suspension system - system is excellent. We had to make some rather sharp avoidance turns periodically, and in - in these turns, we could tell the vehicle was quite stable; no tendency to turn over whatsoever. I think the only recommendation we'd really have would be to come up with a new idea on the seatbelt-type arrangement, and we - we've discussed that also. I think we have some suggestions we could make when we get back to ensure that you can have both crewmen securely in their seats in a short period of time. Other than that, I think the vehicle is about as optimum as you can build.
Question number 8 for Dave Scott. The drill seemed to drive you up the crater walls. What was the problem, and was it worth the time?
I guess I'd anticipated that question. I think the problem was a - a striking discovery. When we went to Hadley Rille, we expected to find a regolith, or the soil, about 5 meters thick. And with that in mind, like 25 feet, I expected to have no trouble putting the heat flow probes in or drilling the - the core stem because of the expected soft soil. After about 1 meter, I ran into hard rock, and my first thought was it was an isolated rock somewhere within the - the soil. But that was not the case. Apparently, what we have is a very thin regolith, or a thin soil layer above solid rock. And with this in mind, I think we brought back a core stem or a deep drill-core of the Moon of basic bedrock or foundation rock on Hadley Plain. I think that's a very significant find. I think it will be very meaningful to the scientists when they analyze it.
Question number 9 for Dave Scott.
Gee, I don't want them all.
Well, since I really have very little say-so as to which - which people get selected for which crews, I might sort of bypass it with a - with a one comment that the more qualified a man is on the Moon, the more results you're going to get. And I think that's one of the reasons that we put as much time as we did into the geological aspects, in hopes of - of learning enough to bring back some significant data. I think that in any situation such as this, in any scientific endeavor, that you want the most qualified people possible. You must also remember that this is a - a highly complex operational mission. It requires a great deal of - of training and skill in order to fly these machines. I think, in particular, Jack Schmitt is a very highly qualified individual in both aspects. And I believe it's up to the - the management, that when they select the crews, to select the best people for the flight.
Question number 10 for Al Worden. What runs through the mind of a man orbiting the Moon alone?
Well, I guess - I guess the - the thing foremost in my mind during those three days was how I was going to keep up with the time line and the Flight Plan, and how I was going to keep track of all the experiments we had going and where they were, and - and whether they were operating or not. And I guess that was a very, very fast three days for me. When I wasn't looking at the SIM bay experiments, I was looking out a window and taking pictures, and it was a pretty crammed three days. As a matter of fact, I - I guess I didn't really have - have much time to give any thoughts to being alone up there.
Question number 11, again for Al. You said, after your spacewalk, you wish you'd stayed out longer. What was it like out there between the Earth and the Moon, and why did you come in so soon?
Well, let me answer the last one first. I - I guess I didn't come in soon; I came in when the job was done. And, as a matter of fact, I made an extra trip back out to take a look at the Mapping Camera. Now as - as far as what I felt like when I was out there, we talked a little bit about it after - after the EVA and decided it was sort of like walking on stage at your high school - dinner dance or something. We opened the hatch and it was pitch black, and as soon as we got out, the Sun was beating down on everything, and it looked like a very large floodlight on a stage. And then putting the TV camera out on the door just added a little bit more to that sort of unreal feeling that it was time to get out on the stage and do something. I think, as far as the EVA went, we did it just almost exactly as we'd practised it. It took almost exactly the same amount of time; we did it the same way. And, of course, we had practised that with pan - with the Mapping Camera in the extended position, and so that - that really posed no difficulty to us.
Question number 12 for Dave and Jim. You - you didn't have time to get to North Complex, craters which may have been formed volcanically and where you thought some surprises might be found. Was this a significant loss?
Why don't you?
Well, I'll start out and - and throw an answer there. I think if you look back at the original requirements for the landing at the Hadley-Apennines, they were primarily to inspect the front and the rille. It was only after a - a considerable amount of study had been done and some rearrangement in the Flight Plan - the timing on the surface, that we found we had enough time to plan to go to the Northern Complex. So the Northern Complex was, in fact, an addition to the original requirement; it was a bonus. And I think because Jim and I have spent so much time with volcanics in our terrestrial geology work, that we were quite interested in getting to the Northern Complex to see if, in fact, it was a volcanic area. But I don't believe we lost anything from the lunar surface by not going there; only we would have had an extra bonus had we been able to reach that point. And, with that in mind, I hope that some day somebody gets a chance to go back and take a look at the Northern Complex. Jim, do you want to answer?
No, I agree with everything you said. It was just a little personal disappointment that we couldn't get up there, because we - we thought we'd have another beautiful view of the - the plains there and the LM, a view almost...
as beautiful as it - as it was from the side of Hadley Delta.
Question number 13 for each of you. Would you, please, in your own words, tell us what you gave the American taxpayers besides a few hours of good television?
Oh, I think - the magnitude of the scientific data we return will speak for the taxpayers' money. The small amount of time they had for television, I think, is rather insignificant relative to the amount of return we've gathered in the SIM bay and in the lunar samples we have aboard right now. I think these data will not only en - enhance the progress of science, but it'll reach the common man on the street directly by the - the byproducts of what we learn. I think man must extend himself, the new frontiers must be open in order for us to - to propagate mankind, and I think this is one way in which we do it. I - I feel that the taxpayers got, probably - as a matter of fact, I hope they got more than their money's worth out of the flight. And, if you could see the size of the film magazines that Al brought in yesterday from those cameras, why, you'd see that we have indeed at least a great deal of data on film alone.
Well, I really guess that there's not much to add to what Dave said. He - he expressed my sentiments exactly, and that the - the knowledge that, hopefully, we've - we've added to our store of information about the Moon and about ourselves will be increased in an extent which is greater than - than the - than the capital that was - spent on the flight itself. And, I would certainly think that - that the full theory adds significantly to - to man's knowledge about himself primarily and about himself in those areas where it will help future generations maybe.
I can only add that we're bringing back just a lot of - lot of data and a lot of material, and it's going to take many years for people to really appreciate how much was gained from - from this flight.
Question number 14. It seemed this flight had as many problems as some of the old Gemini missions. Which of these gave you the most concern; and, for Dave, did you ever feel you were back on Gemini VIII?
Well, I guess we weren't aware we had that many problems. I thought this was a rather trouble-free flight, myself. We went a long way, we spent a long time doing the job, and I think, relative to the number of systems we have in all the spacecraft, that we had very few problems. I can think of none that were significant that would enable me to compare it with Gemini VIII at all. We had a - I guess the first little problem we had was a - a leak in our water system, which was cleared up rather rapidly by somebody having already done some investigation and having a procedure at hand. I believe our system is such that people have all the anticipated problems understood, and, when they have them understood, they come up with solutions which are quite meaningful and successful. And I feel like the spacecraft and the life support systems on the Moon and everything worked exceedingly well. I - I guess really I couldn't ask for much more. How about you?
Well, I really don't...
No, go ahead.
You know really, we had very few problems. It seemed like a very tame simulation, as far as I was concerned.
Certainly, there were - there were - there were irritating things that happened like some circuit breakers in the spacecraft here that gave us some trouble, and some lights that aren't working exactly right. But certainly none of the important aspects of the flight or - or none of the essential pieces of equipment have malfunctioned, and I think it's been just great.
Gentlemen, we'd like to continue the press conference in a few minutes. But, in the meantime, we'd be anxious to get - start - get one of you started on the lunar eclipse photos. We have three more questions.
Yes, turn...
We got to try to do both?
Question...
Okay...
Question number 15...
Why don't we show them the lunar eclipse?
There's a lunar rock to show them.
Let's think, how many times?
Well, I fell down twice...
Yes.
Yeah, I guess I fell down twice, too, and as Jim said, it was never any real problem. It's a matter of if you start to go - and, of course, the terrain there, I guess you could see the television, was quite rough and irregular with occasionally rocks around, and we were pressing to try and get things done. And it was just a matter if you just start losing your balance, to go ahead and go easy, and accept somewhat of a - a light fall. Because of the one sixth gravity, there was never any impact when we hit. Take it easy and get up slow. And I don't think either one of us ever came anywhere near the point of being hurt, in that sense of the matter. It's just a matter of slowing you up for a minute, enabling you to regain your balance, and go ahead. And I - I have a question. Do you want to have the photos of lunar eclipse with the television now, or do you want us to get on with the - the camera photos? Because if that's the case, we have to turn the lights out in here.
Rog. We're going to skip down to the last question, Dave, which says your cabin must be jammed with Moon rocks, core samples, suits and assorted hardware. Can you show us what it's like in there? And, as you show us around, you can get set up for the Moon photos and dim the lights when you like.
Oh, man.
Ohh!
Okay. I guess...
O - okay, Dave. That's fine. And I guess one last request is when you get over to that window to - and before you take the photos, could you give us a quick picture of the Moon with the TV camera?
Sure will.
Can try it.
Have I got any pictures? I'll cut this thing down.
See any magazines?
Yes...
Right here's some, Dave. I got Al's. You got some? Procedures, cameras...
You ought to get over here.
Let me get over there.
15, the word here is to proceed; give your photography first priority there, and maybe we can see the - the Moon out of the other window.
That's...
Okay. We're working on it.
Okay, we're working on it.
Oh,.
Got enough?
Hold it, Al. It's still going...
Monitor? Yes, I can get it from here. I think.
15, Houston. We hear that your attitude is very good right now; there's no need to trim the maneuver.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay, Al, you got the camera all set up over there, huh?
Yes.
Do you want me to read the settings to you, just in case?
Yes.
There's a change.
Yes.
If you'll grab those.
What do you want me to get, Dave? Get the lights? Yes, I can get them.
If you can get the lights -
Turn this up a little bit. Okay, Al, when you're ready for me, I'll read to you.
Could that be it?
Need anything down there, Dave?
No, I don't think so. See what it looks like.
Well, it's completely dark now. Just the lower part is orange.
Yes.
The top part's almost a red, a dark red, and the bottom is an orange.
Here.
There you go. Yes, you got her.
Okay, Houston. I think you have a picture of her now. There she is.
Okay.
Okay. Let's check it; f/1.2?
Yes.
1/500th?
Right.
Take eight frames? Okay, I guess we'll give priority to you, huh, Al?
Okay, we - we got to get the...
15, so far we have a blank screen down here.
Oh, really? I've got a good picture on the monitor.
Okay, Jim, while...
Hang on for a moment, please.
Okay, we're coming up on 6 minutes here at 55...
Besides, we're Free here.
Boy, every time those - the jet fires.
Okay, go - we're Free.
Okay, Jim.
It's coming through now.
Okay, Jim.
Okay, stand by. Your first one'll be a 60-second exposure time and I'll - it'll be at 55:53.
Well, that's kind of - not.
That's a beautiful picture with just an edge of the Moon coming out of the eclipse.
I can do it anyhow.
Can you?
Rog. That's right.
Okay. Suit yourself then. I'm...
15, Houston. We'd like to ask if you got full zoom there?
Rog. It's all the way out.
Could you please give us ALC to Peak?
Oh, I think we are - stand by one.
Hello, Endeavour; this is Yankee Clipper. Over.
Hello, Yankee Clipper. How are you?
Roger, I've got a naval tradition to pass on to you.
Go ahead.
Roger. When ships of the line have completed a mission such as yours and they return to home port, they always have a broom flying from the yardarm. Over.
Rog. Well, we'll do that.
Thank you.
We wouldn't want to break any traditions, Dickie.
Dave, I'm watching you; I wouldn't let you.
Atta boy, and I'm glad.
Okay, Houston. We're going to switch windows here with the TV camera, so we can switch windows with the camera cameras.
Roger, Dave.
15, Houston. When somebody gets a free hand up there, could we start the charge on battery A? We're afraid that might keep us from going to bed if we don't get it started soon.
Houston, the Moon is an orange ball, now - a dull orange ball with a sort of a gray area in the center on - on one side opposing the side that's slowly coming into illumination at the present time, and you'll probably get more and more of the lunar surface exposed to sunlight as we go along here. The picture you have is really pretty good for what we see, because there's very little illumination on the Moon. And only when we get the cockpit lights down reasonably low and get our face up in the window can we see the definition. So it's really not a bad picture.
Roger, 15. Thanks for the description, and the picture we're getting down here is quite good also.
Okay, I'm sure you'll have a much better one here in a few minutes.
Apollo 15, Houston. Over.
Houston, 15. Go.
Roger. It looks like you've had enough of the pho - photography for right now. It's beginning to get pretty bright on the tube. I guess we can go ahead and power it down.
Okay.
That's interesting, Houston, because it looks like only about - oh, maybe 1/20th or so, maybe, of the Moon is illuminated at this time; just a thin sliver, but very bright.
Rog. Copy, Dave.
Roger.
