Apollo l2, Houston. Give us Omni Charlie, please.
Hello, Houston; Apollo 12. We're on the time line. We'll be Sep at 03:18.
Roger, Pete. How's the ice situation on your windows now?
We've got cr - awful bad windows. It's a shame because it's all the water that was on them and it looks like it'll be with us for the flight.
Bad news, Pete.
'Sokay. Can't win them all. Maybe I'll get out and clean them later.
Houston, Pyro armed.
Roger, 12.
Pyro Arm.
A is Off.
Okay. We're holding for you to start your clock. It should be...
34.
at 17...
34.
34.
99 Bravo. Look at that bias. It's just plain got a drift that won't quit.
That's pretty bad.
That thing is really bad.
It was bad that time.
Here we go.
bad. Stand by for an alarm.
I'll get.
Okay, which button you going to use to Sep with? Right there. Want me to Sep for you?
CS - CSM Launch Vehicle, Sep.
Want me to Sep for you? You leave that switch open. I'll give you a two potato count, Sep. And then, I've got my other hand these primary propellants.
I'll go ahead and do that.
All right, I'll get these propellants on.
34. One minute.
Me, too.
CSM Launch Vehicle, Sep.
That's what I did right then.
Yes. I agree.
Don't ever touch this row up here.
Yes.
Yes. Al Bean?
Yes?
Go help Dick Gordon; I don't know where the Sun going to be or what's going to happen, but.
Watch - watch this...
I'm going to get those.
That's a smart idea, Pete Conrad. Get them out; have them ready. You read them; I'll give them to him.
Put them on my eyes right now, just to keep them out of the way.
The launch was almost as good as me getting to fly the Sat V into orbit.
Okay, Dick. 17.
34.
34, 30, 31, 2, 3, 4, started. Okay. Now, CMC Mode, to Auto, at 59:50. Now, I'm going to go.
Yes,.
Okay? Okay, at 50, CMC Mode, Auto and, at 58, I went to the plus X; and, at all zeros, Sep.
That's it? You got one quad. That's all okay. Everything's all right. All the quads are gray.
Everything's all right. They're checked out.
Okay. Helium? That's all of them? All right, Helium in A Secondary.
We copy SLA Sep, Pete.
Okay, we Sep'd.
Helium over to B. Watch those...
The third panel looks like it's open in the LM, right behind that RCS thruster.
No, that's the - the second. Look at the Earth; isn't that sharp, Pete Conrad?
You - you get the Earth. Let me get a couple more. We can see the whole United States, Houston.
We can see the whole United States, Houston.
You got it in your window yet, Dick?
Roger. Give us Omni Bravo, please.
I don't have any COAS, either - that - there it is.
Okay.
Yes.
All right, let me see, here. I've got the propellant rate, and the fuel reactor cell's in Normal, Al. Yes.
Hey, you guys, what's - Oh, that's not your fault.
What's the matter?
Nothing, nothing.
Okay. You got her. It's all yours, babe. Drive her right back in.
I got to turn on the TV. Okay.
I got an awful pretty looking Intrepid sitting out the window here, gang. We'll go get her.
Roger.
Apollo 12, Houston. You're Go for Docking.
Roger, Houston.
BMAG Mode, three, to Rate 2, Dick?
Yes, they're Rate 2, Pete.
All right. Now, look, have you got - gone to CMC? Huh?
Yes. I'm in Auto maneuver to the docking attitude.
You're in the Auto maneuver to the docking attitude. You did a Verb 49...
Apollo 12, Houston. We are configured for television early if you want to punch it up.
Okay. We're punching it up right now.
Good show.
How does it look down there, Houston?
Nothing yet, Pete.
How does that look to you, Houston?
Still nothing, 12. Okay, stand by. I think we got it coming.
12, Houston. We've got the TV now. Looks very good.
Hello there, Intrepid.
12, Houston. Black and white is spectacular, and the color is really pretty good, too.
Apollo 12, Houston. The camera is cutting off about half of Intrepid now.
That's the best we could do. We're right next to it...
Roger.
about 5 feet.
You're looking right in the LM overhead window right now. We're getting closer.
Roger, Al. And the color is really great now.
This Dick Gordon's smooth as silk.
I think we just saw you grab it.
We're on the way in right now.
Okay. Everything's - everything's sticky-poo.
match up...
We got a hard dock, Houston. She looks good. Both barber - I mean, both A and B are gray. All latches made.
Roger, Pete. Looks good.
Okay, now, wait a minute.
We don't have much fuel.
Oh, you did okay, Dick Gordon.
After docking latches have engaged, Probe, Extend; talkback, gray; SECS...
Okay.
Pyro Arm, Safe; SECS Logic, Off.
Okay, SECS Pyro Arm, Safe.
Yes. Yes.
Logic's Off.
Okay, just a minute.
Keep reading.
Cool it; cool it.
Oh, good Godfrey, I'll say it's right out there.
Is the Earth out there?
EDS Power, Off.
Yes, it's out my side.
EDS Power is Off.
Okay, now. Three EDS circuit breakers, open.
Open.
Docking Probe Extended Release to Off.
Docking Probe, Off.
Be sure.
Yes.
Off.
Docking Probe Retract, two, Off.
Two, Off.
Docking Probe, two, open...
12, Houston. What was that just floated past the window?
I don't really know, Houston. We were in here doing the checklist.
We're seeing some little white flecks - floating past the window.
We've got a - We're in a great big cloud of ice balls up here. They're just all over everywhere, and there is a lot of stuff floating up out of the S-IVB itself that looks like ice or white paint chips, one of the two.?
Roger. We can even see it here.
How does the zoom look - look to you, Houston? Want that changed any?
It looks like it is in good position right now.
Just a second and we'll slide the camera over to the other side and give you a good Earth view.
Apollo 12, Houston. If you're going to leave the camera there for a few minutes more, try an F:11 stop.
That's where we are now, Houston.
Roger.
I'll try a little more for you.
That is perfect. We can see the scribe marks on the window now, on the colored TV.
Roger.
We can see the red window-sill; the ridge around the window.
Okay, we're going to move the camera now.
Roger.
12, Houston. We're picking up your Earth shots now. It's still moving a little bit.
Roger. We'll work on it.
12, Houston. We've got a real good view now.
Apollo 12, Houston. Were the LM docking lights on?
This is 12. I didn't notice whether they were or or not, I had my - had my eyes glued to the Docking Target.
Roger.
Hey, Jer - This is Dick. How much fuel did I waste during that docking?
Hang tight, Dick. We'll check.
12, Houston. You're nominal; used 70 pounds.
That's too much; that's too much.
Apollo 12, Houston. We're having a little trouble recognizing things here. How about giving us a little travelog?
Well, that's the Earth you're looking at, friend.
Oh, I thought it was the Moon.
Charlie is not working again, is he?
No, we've got him locked in a closet.
Okay. You should be looking at the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico; Baja California is in plain sight. It's a pretty nice day down there. The Gulf - The Western Gulf of Mexico has a cloud coverage along the coast; looks like it's almost up to Houston. It's South and West of it.
Roger.
It looks like that garbage we came through down at the Cape is off the coast at this time.
See, you could have waited and missed it, Dick.
Oh, I wouldn't have missed that for the world.
12, Houston. Have you got your lens zoomed?
That's affirm.
Okay. Why don't you try it backing off on it, and let us see a little bit more now?
Looks like you zoomed it in closer rather than back that time.
Okay, 12. Now we can see the Earth is indeed round.
Hey, Jer, it's a fantastic sight. The Mississippi Valley has a little bit of cloud coverage coming down from Canada, and there's some in the north - Northeast part of the country, up in the New England States. Looks like they may be getting some snow over here in the next day or two. Florida is cut in half by that front that went through this morning. The West Coast looks absolutely gorgeous; Baja California is clear, looks like the San Diego/Los Angeles area to the South and West of them is a little cloud coverage- covered. I won't say anything about smog.
Roger. You see any more dry fronts anywhere?
Hey, that was one of the driest ones I've seen in a long time; I hope I never see another one like it. As I look up North, there's nothing but clouds up there.
Hey, Houston, they got the CDR buried in the tunnel working while they're gawking.
Roger.
Apollo 12, Houston. Now with your zoomer, how about sliding in about halfway between where you are now and where you were before?
Okey-doke. funny; we see the Moon out the right window here, window number 5; looks like about one quarter. We see the Earth out the left window.
Roger.
That's good right there.
Hey, Jer, I'm going to take the camera out of that left window out the Earth. I got to get to work and get this thing pressurized.
Okay, Dick.
Apollo 12, Houston.
Go ahead,Houston.
Roger. Your signal strength looks a little low. Are you on the High Gain?
That's affirm.
That any better, Houston?
Roger. Looks good, Al. Looks like the signal strength bumped up pretty well.?
Apollo 12, Houston. What are your plans for the TV now?
We'll get with you in just a few minutes. We're repressing the LM right now.
Okay.
Apollo 12, Houston. We can see a handrail there now.
Roger. We're back at the LM window. We thought you were probably tired of looking at yourself.
Roger. Still a little bit of that white stuff floating up, isn't there?
Yes, there's quite a bit of it still - still around us.
Okay. We're getting the hatch out now, Houston.
Roger, 12.
We'll go on Vox and it's yours.
Houston, this is 12 on Vox.
Roger, 12. We're reading you loud and clear on Vox.
Okay. I've got Pete working up in the tunnel. We've got the hatch - hatch is coming down between us.
Hooked on something for some reason here.
On this - hose over here.
Right.
Just a minute. Here you come.
And Houston, I do notice a sort of funny smell people have commented on. It's nothing nervous, now that we expected it, but...
Watch your hand controller.
funny smell to it.
How do the latches look, Pete?
Just a minute. My Vox keeps breaking.
That's affirmative, Pete. You're chopping on the Vox.
Yes. How's that now?
Sounds pretty good now. Keep talking.
Okay. I'm going up in the tunnel at this time.
What did you put it on, about 7 on the VOX?
And I don't see any bad latches so far. Looks like everything banged home.
Are they all parallel?
All parallel. Let me check them all. Just a minute.
Hello, there...
Hey, Houston, that was a real good ripple fire when they went home.
Roger.
those - That's all good. Whee, the docking probe is hot. Oops, there's a latch that's not made, and now it is. Just the handle.
Just bang the handle home.
Just the handle, huh?
That's it.
Okay.
Now go around 1 to 12 and check them all.
Okay. Well, let's go hook up some warm-up umbilicals. Let me do a 360 up here.
Don't lose him up through the...
No, sir.?
probe, just...
Hey, 12; Houston.
Go.
How about stopping the camera down? There is a light spot we're kind of worried about.
Yes, that was here the last flight.
Pete, they mean in the LM. We can take it out of the window if you like or turn it off, Houston. Verify extend latched engaged indicator red not Vis.
Ho, ho, ho; there's one umbilical all hooked up.
Apollo 12, Houston. You can go ahead and turn it off if you want to.
Roger.
Look - look up there. Al Bean's reading something to you; I don't know what the hell he's reading - don't know what he's reading right now.
What's you reading, Al?
Okay. You've and...
Al?
second. Great.
You - to talk to me, you're going to have to re-set your VOX up a little - you're breaking up.
Here, let me try something, Al.
Okay.
You got to put it up to about 7 or 8.
Got to hold on to this hatch.
Okay, good boy, hang onto the hatch.
All right. Now, let me, go after the other umbilical.
I thought you were hanging on to the hatch?
I got it.
Are you talking to me?
Now, unhook the other umbilical and we'll be all set.
Just a minute.
Can you turn on the tunnel lights? You got enough?
Got lots of umbilical here. Oh boy, this is so much nicer than one-g practice. I can't believe it.
Okay, now that looks like two umbilicals all connected to me. And let me smoke over these latches one more time here. I want to check the top of each one of the springs - they're all good
Okay.
There's one - one latch, number 11, is a half cock - I mean a half load. Did you read that, Houston?
Roger, Pete. We read it.
Latch number 9 is a half.
Number 9.
Latch No. 7's a half.
Roger.
Nothing wrong with that, I guess.
So - all the rest of them are full. I guess before we put the hatch back up there, Dick, we want to get on the LM power?
Yes, we do, go to
It's on 4-D, I'll reset it, Dick.
Okay, and I'm going to CSM.
Okay.
And it should read a half to 3 2, where we are, CSM.
We got power on the CSM, not very much. I mean on the LM.
That should go half a volt to 3.2.
Okay, it's reading a half...
Three and four tenths.
Okay, Houston, you looking at that on your telemetry; does that look like we've got everything hooked up?
Looks good, Pete.
Okay.
There it goes up to 3 volts...
Okay.
Just cycled.
Just cycled, huh?
Just hit a cycle on it.
Very good.
And dropped to 1.4.
Okay, now...
It looks to me like we can put the hatch back in.
Hand me the old friendly hatch; I'll stick her back up in there.
Okay. Let's... Let's miss those hoses this trip; I think it'd make it a little easier for us.
Also, these switches would be nice to miss too.
All right, wait a minute. I'm not in a very good position for you to hand me the hatch yet. Wait - let me just...
Remember that we are in Vox.
Yes. Okay. Now, I want to get it right; the arrow is in the wrong direction. Rotate my way, gang, until you see an arrow, and then I'll - I'll go on up in here, and...
Which color of arrow do you want? There's yellows and reds.
Well - the yellow.
The yellow's over right at me.
All right, now, wait a minute. Let me just cock her around here. Now, there's a hose over on your side that's holding it, Dick. Can you get that clear, and I'll go right up into the tunnel with it.
Well, you ought to go up in the tunnel first, like this and then turn it.
All right. I'm in here - I'm in here.
Now, turn it; there you have it.
All right. Now, where's my yellow arrow?
There's your red one right here.
Yes. All right, just a minute. Ho-Ho-Ho, there we go.
How you doing with that?
The first thing I've got to do here, wait a minute. Unlatch - the latch...
Yes.
not unlatch.
know, just a second.
I think everything's in place here, wait a minute.
Now, be sure and rotate it more; you're not lined up.
All right.
Keep rotating it.
Okay.
There you go, I'll buy that one right there.
You'll buy that one right there?
Yes.
Let me go to...
Maybe just a little less than that.
latch. Okay. That looks like it's home. Does that look like it's home to you?
It'll only go one turn. Looks like it to me.
Okay. All right, let me close the vent valve
And I'll turn off the lights and we're...
All right. Let's go per the checklist here, get the checklist. What do we...
my - warm little hands.
Okay.
Says the...
Vent valve's closed, handle is latched, and I can verify that all the pieces of...
Pressure equalization valve closed, clockwise?
That's good, pressure equalization...
LM tunnel vent valve. LM/CM Delta-P?
LM/CM Delta-P.
And the tunnel lights are out?
Tunnel lights are out, and this gage doesn't read Zero - it reads about plus a 10th when we get the pressure equalized.?
I see...
Apollo 12, Houston.
Go.
I need your O2 fans on, and we'll watch them for you and tell you when to turn them off.
Okay, sir. I guess the next thing is, we want to get the surge tank and all our repress packages back up.
What in the world is all that red stuff back there?
That's just what I was wondering; it's real pink out there.
Yes.
Well, let me look and see.
Houston, 12. What's going on with the booster?
All pink out there.
Yes, something just - just looks like it's flowing...
Looks like you're getting fuel vent.
Huh?
It's a normal fuel vent.
Hey, that's pretty spectacular.
Oh, no, I'll tell you what it is; the Sun is on the - on my right side...
Yes.
and it's shining around the booster...
Through the...
and it's shining through...
through the vent.
the fuel vent, and it's made a rainbow. It's really spectacular.
Look out...
Yes.
Can you see the apex of...
Yes.
of where it all comes together, out there?
Yes. Sure can.
Look at that, what happened there? The vent must have shut off or something.
Still a little bit
There's all kinds of things going on back there.
Look at all those loose objects floating along with us down there.
take them with us.
there's a disaster waiting for us if we don't have those circuit breakers in over there on the LM Sep.
They're in, I checked them. About five times.
All right, let's get back to business. Tunnel vent lights off, okay.
You want to go off Vox?
Yes.
Houston, we're going to leave you on - off of Vox for a while, and we'll be back with you a little later.
Okay, Dick.
And we're standing by here for our Sep time. What do you have for us for the Sep time?
Stand by, 12.
12, Houston. We're looking at a Sep time of 04:13.
Roger. Sep time of 04:13.
Houston, we're going to bring the SECS Logic On.
Roger, 12. We're all ready.
Logic 1
Mark.
Logic 2
Mark.
12, Houston. You're go for Pyro's.
Roger. Go for Pyro Arm.
Apollo 12, Houston. Go for ejection.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. You do want us to Sep at 4 plus 13 plus 00. Is that correct?
That's affirmative, 12.
Houston, this is 12. We're having all kinds of time with this - trouble with this Mission Timer; we've had to reset that thing twice already.
Yes, the Mission Timer in the LEB is okay; it's kept good times. So, we keep getting our little pitch fork, and I just think that we're going to have a lot of trouble with it, so we're just not going to pay much attention to it.
Roger, Pete.
There goes Pete's EMI theory.
Say again, Houston.
There goes your EMI theory, Pete.
Yes, I'm afraid you're right.
Give you a little TV, Houston?
We're standing by.
I don't see the booster yet.
Below us.
below us.
Yes.
Did it go below us?
Yes.
No, no, no, no.
Then how come it went below us?
Let Al get...
Below the LM. Pull straight back.
Yes, I sure did; it came out of there straight.
Okay. Now,...
Did you get a picture of it?
No. We - I can't see it.
Oh, the TV...
All right, now, let me get working. LM Sep, 5 seconds, thrust aft for 3, Al.
Okay, key P00.
We've Seped, Houston. It looked good, and of course you still can't see anything yet; when we pitch around, I'll show it to you.
when we pitch around, I'll show it to you.
Pyro Arm, two of them, Safe.
Pyro Arm, two, Safe.
Roger, 12.
Logic, Off.
Logic's Off.
CB SCS Arm, two, open.
Arm's open.
CB S-IVB LM Sep, two of them, open.
Apollo 12, Houston. We don't have our TV ground lines up at this time. If we don't get them up in time to see the pictures, we'll record it at Goldstone and show it later.
Okay...
Roger.
Launch Vehicle SPS Indicator switch to GPI.
Okay, GPI.
TVC Servo Power, two of them, Off.
Off.
EMS Mode to Standby.
Standby.
Tape Recorder, Off.
Tape Recorder's Off.
PCM Bit Rate, Low.
Low, okay.
Now, Verb 49.
Go ahead.
Apollo 12, Houston. We're copying television now and soon as you've finished with your ejection and you're clear, we'll go ahead and enable the S-IVB evasive maneuver.
Can you see those flashes, Houston? that's the RCS thrusters reflecting off the quads on the LM.
Roger.
Haven't seen any flashes yet, 12.
They may be a little dim for you to see.
Oh, there's the S-IVB, and I can see it venting.
Roger, 12. When you're well clear and you're ready for us, let us know and we'll start the maneuver to the evasive attitude.
Boy, is that thing venting. What's it keep venting, anyhow, Houston? Keeps throwing out big clouds of...
We're not...
of something.
Roger. We're not supposed to be venting anything.
Boy, it's throwing stuff off the sides and out the back like crazy.
Roger. Can you get us a picture?
Well, we'll get you some on the TV if we can; it just looks like it's venting something out of the rear end - big radial clouds of it coming out the back.
That's really something.
As a matter of fact, Houston, I suspect that maybe you ought to enable that maneuver right now. It sure...
We'll do it, Pete.
it sure is throwing a lot of stuff out of the back of it; I ain't got any idea what it is, but it sure is throwing it out of there.
Roger.
Maneuver's initiated, Pete.
Okay. I can see it firing thrusters, and I can see it starting to yaw.
Try to get it out of the center hatch window now, Houston.
Okay.
12, Houston. Give us Omni Delta, please.
We're copying your TV real clear now, and the jerking has stopped. It's looking good.
Earth is about one and a half times the size of a basketball right now.
Houston. 12. Let us know when that maneuver is over, please.
Wilco.
Say again, Houston.
We'll let you know when that maneuver's complete. Al, how big's that - how far away is that basketball.
You probably got a better idea than I do about that one.
Could you see that thing throwing stuff out the back, Houston?
We could awhile ago, and it looks like it's got a halo around it now. Is it still there?
Well, that's the Sun shining in the front end. But from the angle that we have on it, there's something venting out the - The aft engines are on either side and the upper aft engine, the engine that's away from the Earth...
No, I'm not talking about that; I'm trying to reference it to whatever it is that's venting back there; it's a line; see that line coming out of the engine, over on the left-hand side?
12, Houston. We got a hunch that what happened is, when that Lox valve failed open and we tried to close it ourselves, it probably burned out that burner.
Maneuver's complete, 12.
Okay and when are you going to brake the APS? Oh, hey, it just vented something tremendously; can you see that, Houston?
Yes. We can see it now, Pete. Okay, try it again.
Houston, are you going to make that maneuver on time at 11:40?
12, Houston. We're looking at 426 plus 18 for that burn.
Roger. 426 plus 18. And Houston, that's, I assume, is 11:40 after our Sep; is that correct?
We're checking, 12.
Houston, we're changing the scenery on you; we'll come back to that S-IVB just before it goes.
Roger, 12. And that maneuver will be done at 13 minutes past Sep.
Roger. I've got 09:52 right now.
How does the homeland look to you?
Beginning to look kind of small.
It's really weird, Houston. There's something that's venting radially. And then there's something that's venting along the axial axis, and it's sort of taking turns. And right now, it reminds me of some guy standing back there with a water hose just spraying it in any old direction; it's just - it keeps venting, whatever it is, and it just keeps blowing away in different directions.
Roger, Pete.
I'm trying to get all this on film for you.
Good deal.
12, Houston. On your event timer; that maneuver will be 12:48.
Okay, understand, 12:48.
Okay, Houston, we're going back to the S-IVB now for the burn.
Roger, 12.
We've got the S-IV now, 12.
Roger. Are you starting the maneu - starting the Sep maneuver?
That's affirmative. We're ready now.
Okay, we're ready.
Ullage motors are on.
Yes, we can see it starting to move now, Houston. Hear the motors firing?
Roger.
12, Houston. When you get a chance, turn off your O2 fans.
Roger. They're coming off.
12, Houston. The APS maneuver is complete.
How much you figure you got out of that, Houston?
About 10 feet per second, Dick.
That's pre-planned, did you really get that?
12, Houston. The burn was nominal. If the vehicle is a shade lighter, we might have gotten just a little bit more Delta-V out of it.
Okay. Well, that thing did a fantastic job for us today.
Sure did.
The sunlight is starting to come in the window and we're a little concerned about the TV, so I guess you've seen the show for today on the S-IVB and we'll look at the Earth for a little bit for you.
Roger, Dick, and we'd sure like to see what you guys look like.
Well, we look just like we did this morning when we got out of bed.
Now, there's a real reasonable guy for you.
we'll be glad to show you, and give me an attitude to go to; I'm not going to track that S-IVB any more.
Roger, 12. Good attitude is Roll 58, Pitch 240, Yaw 39.
Roger. The reason I'll leave that S-IVB, it's starting to get in line with the Sun and I can still have it but it's a little tough.
Roger, Dick. This attitude we just fired to you is your P52 attitude for 05 plus 30. And the stars that you can use at this attitude are number 12, Rigel; number 16, Procyon. And the reason why we had this one in our hip pocket is that this is the same attitude that you can use for the sextant calibration after you've realigned your platform.
Okay. Give it to me again, 58 - Would you?
Roger. 58, 240, and 39.
And we've just turned off our TV; we've maneuvered where we no longer have the Earth or the S-IVB.
Now, that was 390 in yaw, is that right, 039?
That's 39 - 039 in yaw.
Okay.
This will save you one maneuver down the pike a ways.
12, Houston. Give us Omni Alfa.
12, Houston. If you can give us an interior shot, I'd like to have a rough idea of when you can do it; and if you can't do it, we'll go ahead and release our TV lines.
It's coming to you right now; you should have something there.
Okay. Great, Dick.
There's Dick Gordon with his sunglasses on. Boy oh boy. I'll tell you, these guys weren't kidding when they said this thing shakes, rattles, and rolls when you fire the thrusters; it's like being on a jerky train.
Roger.
Okay, we're at 58 degrees in roll, 240 pitch, and 39 degrees in yaw.
Roger, 12. We're not getting your TV.
We got a good picture here on our monitor.
12, Houston. On the high gain, give us pitch minus 50 and yaw plus 60 and that should lock us up. Okay, we got your TV.
Dr. Gordon, I presume.
Better known to his friends as Shicky Dicky.
Hey, Red Baron, where's your scarf?
Well, I tell you. I think I forgot it during that boost phase. We ought to talk to you about all that good happening. That's a terrible way to break Al Bean into space flight, I'll tell you,
Roger.
Say, what time is the Lox blowdown on the S-IVB?
Stand by, 12. 12, Houston. Cris says he doesn't think you guys are the same age as when you got up this morning either.
He is absolutely correct. In fact, I wish you guys would play us that DSE tape back tonight. All Al Bean kept saying was there's power on the buses, there's power on the buses, and every light brightly inside was lit. And I kept thinking, why is he saying that to me?
That's beautiful.
I was saying, Al, there's so many lights on, I can't read them all to you. He's totally recovered from launch, see that?
Oh, it looks beautiful. That's a nice-looking hat you're wearing, Al.
We have three of them just alike in here. We got something else for you too.
I tell you, this Command Module's a good deal. Dick and I, being use to the Gemini, just hand everything to Al and say "hold it." And he's got 25 things in his hands.
Roger.
I'm sorry I couldn't follow that S-IVB anymore, but it was really getting into the Sun, and I guess we aren't going to see much of it anyway, any more.
Roger, Dick. We'd like to have you guys start a Battery charge now.
Okay. We are going to secure the TV too in just a minute now
I think we're on Battery B in the flight plan, huh?
That's affirmative.
Okay, we're going to stow the TV, and we'll come back at you later with something.
Roger. We've lost the TV now.
Roger. We just - shut it down.
Apollo 12, Houston. Slingshot burn time is 4 plus 48 and it's in attitude.
Okay, 4 plus 48. Well - have you got some gimbal angles for us - that are - well, let me ask you. Is it going to be in our window in the attitude we're in now or not?
I kind of doubt it, Pete; do you want to watch it go?
No, no, we'll just stay put. We're getting hungry, and I think we're going to start getting out of these suits and eat in a little bit here.
Roger.
Hey, Jerry, I'm still not too happy with the way this mission event timer is performing even though we do have the tuning fork intermittently in the window.
Roger, Dick.
I guess we'll just have to keep an eye on it. Right now, it seems to be performing okay, but we'll watch it. I'm not so sure that that doesn't get a glitch in it every now and then.
Okay, Dick. And if you are going to lean a lot more heavily on your event timer, you might give us time hacks every once in a while when you're using it, and we'll set ours up and follow you down here and try to keep giving you the right kind of times.
Okay. Looks like the mission event timer in the LEB is keeping good time. Now, let me ask you - it also - if it was central timing problem, it would also show up with the pitch fork, right?
That's affirmative.?
Okay. We've never seen a pitch fork in the LEB timer, and it stayed right in Sync all the way along, so we just periodically call it 1665 and update the - the Mission Timer. What happened is, when a pitch fork comes on, it begins to gain time on us; it keeps getting 5 or 6 seconds ahead.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. We've started Bat B charge.
Roger, 12.
12, Houston. We've initiated the LOX dump.
Roger. We'll look for her to go by.
Apollo 12, Houston.
Go ahead, Jerry.
Roger, Dick. We've been kind of thinking here a little bit, and we'd like for you to consider a proposal here. It's the idea of getting into the LM tonight before bedtime and going through the housekeeping portion of your checklist, short of the communications, and powering up the CMC and giving us a check and an E-Mod dump.
Yes, that sounds like a good idea. We've been up here talking about what that launch may have done to the LM, and I think we can do that between the two P23's. What do you think of that?
We're not going to do MCC 1, Dick. It looks like you won't need it, so you can do that during that time when you would normally be doing MCC 1.
Okay. It sounds good. We really don't have any place to, go tonight, so we don't mind working late.
Okay. It looks like about 11 hours, and we'll work up a good solid plan for you and come up with it later
Okay and if that was a proposal, you'd better watch the use of that language. We won't accept those sort of things.
Roger. Should I have said this was a proposition for you?
No, you said proposal, sir.
Say, Houston, 12.
Go ahead, 12.
I snickered at those ham sandwiches this morning, but I take it all back. They're delicious.
Roger.
Our compliments to the chef.
Roger. He'll be glad to hear that.
Did you break out the jelly beans yet?
No, we're still reminiscing about that launch. We was wondering why we were supposed to try SCE to Aux. We haven't figured that one out yet.
Well, the reason why is because we lost all of our telemetry.
Lost all your what?
Telemetry.
12, Houston. When you went under voltage there, you lost the SCE, and we had to go Aux in order to see what happened.
Hello, Houston, 12.
Go, 12.
Roger. Can you explain what is going on with our Comm? We just lost you there. We had a little trouble.
Roger. We just handed it over Goldstone to Ascension.
Roger. Now I understand. What did you say about the SCE to Aux this morning on that launch?
Roger. The reason - what happened here is we lost that dude when we went low on that Bus, so we had to have you go to Aux in order to pick it up again.
12, Houston. The words are - almost all of your electrical parameters come down on that SCE, and so when you go low on the Bus like that and dump it, about the only thing we can do is go to Aux and try to pick it up again.
Okay. I understand. Thank you, Jerry.
