Okay, Houston. I'm going to Omni Charlie.
Gordy, you got Omni Charlie. Over.
Roger; Omni Charlie, Charlie.
Okay, and we are maneuvering to the attitude right now.
Okay.
16, we see the cabin is up to 5.7 now.
Roger. Thank you, sir.
We'd like Omni Delta, please.
Omni Alpha now, please.
Say again.
Give us Omni Alpha, Charlie.
Okay, you got it.
Request Omni Bravo now, please.
You got it.
Like Omni Charlie, please.
Roger; Omni Charlie.
16, Houston. The booster is in attitude and stable. You have a Go for T&D.
Roger. We'll give you a call just before we get off.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. We're getting ready to arm the pyros. Are you ready?
Roger. We're ready.
Okay; Pyro Arm A is Armed; and B is Armed.
Okay. GDC Align.
Roger. That looks good.
That's - done.
Okay. EMS Function, Delta-V.
Okay.
Okay, let's read it - you want me to read out the - the rest of it?
Okay. Go ahead.
Let's see, I want to get a Verb 62 in here. Is that - that should be about where we start the time, right?
Yeah.
Yeah. We're right at where we start the DET.
Okay, now, what we're gonna do - is we're gonna start the clock, and I'll call times. At 50, I'll take the CMC Mode switch to Auto; at 58, I start hitting the Plus-X. And then at zero, I push this button.
Okay.
We ullage for three seconds, and I release it.
Okay.
I'll take my Accel Command; pitch up - in ten seconds, I'll pitch up, making sure this needle's positive.
Okay.
When it goes positive, you can go to...
Pro...
V18.
Okay.
And - and - Yeah.
Pro when you pitch.
Yeah. And it's a Verb 61.
Okay.
Okay?
Yeah.
Shall we?
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay. Yeah. EMS Mode to Normal.
Okay, I'm going to catch that at the last minute because it counts.
Okay.
You know, John, if you'll just notice what it is for me...
Okay.
so we have some measure. Okay? Ready to start the clock?
Yeah. I want to get my countdown on time.
Okay, we're coming up on 59:40.
Mark.
Roger.
Okay, I'm going to hit Normal on the EMS. Eight - Auto.
This is the right one?
Yeah.
1, 2 - Bang!
There we go...
1, 2, 3, release. It's off. Oh, boy. We're holding attitude pretty good. Pitch is - pitch up. Okay, Pro - John.
Pro...
Okay...
Pro's in; talkbacks are all gray.
Good.
All the talkbacks are gray.
Okay.
Okay. The Reactant Valve is going to.
All right.
Okay, close the Secs...
Okay; all the talkbacks are still gray, Houston. It's pitching around now.
Okay, hit these four to Close.
Roger, John.
Okay, and I got a gray on...
Man, look at all the junk out there.
Let me look out here and see what that stuff looks like.
There go the doors.
Can you see one?
Yeah.
Oh, I see one.
Okay, let's look for that booster. That's the guy I don't want to hit. Watch my - watch my hand controller, John.
There's a door out there by the Earth (cough).
Okay. Did you get Direct Ullage Two, open?
Direct Ullage.
There he is. He's right out there.
Okay. We're clear?
Yeah.
Okay.
You're well clear, and you're about 60 feet out.
Okay. Load the DAP.
Not yet, we got to get...
Oh, okay. That's right. We got to go there.
Okay. Man, did you ever see so much junk?
No.
Oh, look at that. It's like a picture.
Yeah.
Okay.
Load the DAP.
Wait, wait, wait - I'm not clear yet.
Okay.
Yeah, let me get my ullage in here before you - before you change the DAP on me.
Okay. Is it going to stop by itself?
Yes, sir.
You want Key Release?
Yeah.
Ahhh. That maneuver put us.
Okay; here goes. 1, 1, 2, 3, 4.
That's 4...
Okay. Now you can change it.
Key Release. Verb - Verb what? Verb 48...
Enter, no, you got to Enter first. John, let's go back to your Release - Key Release - Key Release. There you go.
Verb 40 what?
Verb 48 Enter.
111.
11102. Hey, how you doing with that TV?
Coming up on the - getting the - Antenna's going to Reacq right now.
Looks like it's about 80 feet out.
Looks like it's still open.
Okay, Houston. You got the High Gain?
Well, I think you're closing, but I sure can't tell it...
Roger, Charlie.
You got the DAC started?
Oh, I forgot! Ten feet, f/8, 12.
Okay.
turn the power on and I think I'm gonna hold it off for a second here.
Yeah.
close.
Okay, did you get the DAP?
The DAP is set.
Man, that looks like I'm opening, doesn't it, John?
Yeah you. Whatever you it much to open it.
I don't want to put in too much rate.
That's right.
Hey, when that thing turned around, guys, the crosshairs in the COAS are within the docking target.
Well, I can't get - I - I got this half of a picture...
It is close - closing, isn't it?
Yeah, he is.
Okay, Houston, you ought to be getting some TV.
I'm trying to get a mark on that.
I haven't got it yet; we're working on it.
Have you - how does the monitor look?
It looks great; but all I got is just this little picture - the cor - the corner of the picture. I can't...
Well, if you move the...
You got to move the camera.
camera?
That's what I've been trying to do, and I can't get any more.
That thing is maneuvering in attitude a little bit. I don't think I'm closing.
Let it ride?
Hmph, there we are - perfect picture.
I don't think you're closing.
Give me.
Give me....
We got a picture now, Charlie, and it looks real good.
Man, it just looks like a picture book from up here, Gordo. We must have a zillion particles along with us.
Roger. We see the particles and - great picture!
Hey, is the zoom in too much, Gordo? You - Let me take it out a little bit.
That's just right, Charlie. That's a good zoom setting right now.
Super!
Gordy, looks like Orion is hanging in there pretty well. She looks great.
Looks the same to us.
About a foot out now, Houston.
Roger. Looks like a real smooth join-up.
Barber pole.
Okay, we're captured there, Houston.
Roger.
Yeah.
on?
Well, I'm going back over them, and I can't see - Well, I don't know.
I tell you, it doesn't dress up very much - or even.
should be.
Looks like something in the or something.
Charlie.
Man, this patience biz is hard to take (laughter). We're dressing up in pitch now, John, and the yaw is, too. We're gonna have lots of time here.
Ken's taking some time in dressing this thing up, getting these attitudes right.
Seems to be...
Okay, John.
quite a bit from the attitude that we had.
Look at that. Isn't that something else?
Yeah.
fired it again, it looked like.
My docking budget didn't allow for all this. But I get no prize if I break it.
Looks like Mylar.
Yeah, I think it's probably Mylar. I think we got some gas trapped in those blankets maybe.
John, is it worth dressing up the roll, do you think?
I don't think so. It looks like that's.
Yeah, it looks in.
Okay; we're about - I'm trying to guess what it is in degrees we're off. I guess we're still off maybe 3 or 4 degrees.
Ain't supposed to be off that far.
I'll go on over...
what the book says.
9?
Yeah.
Well, you know they don't tell you how to tell the degrees you're off. I - I guess I never worried about it except.
pitch and yaw degrees.
Yeah degrees.
Coming back.
Yeah.
get it back.
Yeah. Okay; all we have to do in order to do it now is what?
Put Docking Probe, Retract, to Prim 1. That's all you got to do.
Okay.
Say when.
Yeah, get the camera started.
Early?
We got both rates nulling at the same time.
Okay.
Little more help here in pitch.
Okay, you guys.
Okay, Charlie.
pitch?
I tell you what. We're within a width of a line.
That's good.
That's good.
Okay.
I'm ready.
Okay.
Okay.
Prim 1. Here it comes.
Man, I think that was it.
it goes Free. Auto.
I am Free.
Okay. Did you get a...
Okay, Houston. We're hard docked.
Did you get a - a gray?
Roger, John. We saw it come in.
Did you get grays?
And there is no question when you get the latches.
Yep.
SECS Pyro Arm, Two, Safe?
Roger, Ken.
Pyro Arms 1 and 2, Safe.
SECS Logic, Two, Off?
Logic, Two, Off.
EDS Power, Off.
EDS Power, Off.
CB EDS, Three, Open?
EDS 1, 2, 3, Open.
John, this is Houston.
Go ahead. Over.
We'd like - We noticed the mixing valves cycling about once every 10, 15 seconds. We'd like to give you a mark, at which time we want you to put the Glycol Evap Temp In Valve in Manual and try to catch the flow rate at a - at a appropriate setting. I'll - I'll give you kind of a countdown and a mark here.
I think we saw it before.
Yeah, we've been noticing that ourselves.
Okay, Charlie. Let me - let me give you some numbers here before I get off. With it - When we were docked...
Okay, flow rate's high. It's starting back down.
Go ahead and catch it.
Okay.
John, now all of a sudden we've stopped seeing it - that it has stopped cycling. You didn't throw the switch already, did you?
That's negative. We're awaiting your mark there.
Okay; that's Docking Probe Extend/Release...
Well, it - (chuckle) it just hung up. Just as I said that. Stand by.
supposed to do that. Let me pull those docking probe circuit breakers.
Yeah, that's.
So there's no danger.
Okay.
Okay, Docking Probe Main A and Main B are open.
Okay; Docking Probe Extend/Release, Off.
Extend/Release, Off.
Docking Probe Retract, Two, Off.
Okay...
Hey, when that thing's lined up, it's one bar width - the target is one bar...
We'd like you to cycle the Manual back to Auto and see if that starts it back down. Over.
For gosh sake.
Okay, you were in Manual for about two seconds and back to Auto.
And the - it's over to the right one bar width and up one-half bar width.
Okay, we're...
Okay. Okay, it's coming down now. Stand by to put it in Manual.
Ready. Now.
Okay. Okay, you got it right there on the "now." (onboard): Okay; say that again, Ken.
Okay. My - the cross is one-half bar width...
I was a little slow on the "now," but leave it there for now and press on with the normal procedures.
and one bar to the right of the target. Right then - right here next to my docking.
Okay. Exterior Lights, Off.
Okay. Tape Recorder's Off. Going Off.
Houston, before we turn the TV off, we gon - we want to give you a picture of the Earth.
Okay, I'll appreciate that.
Very nice picture, Charlie. We can see Southwestern United States, Lower California. Very nice.
Good. Ken's doing all that good work for you. It's out his window.
Gordy, is that color okay for you?
Very nice, Ken. Beautiful color.
I bet it's good, but you just can't believe how beautiful it is. See the reds in the desert down there and the Southern United States and northern part of Mexico. And from here, you see the Great Lakes and the State of Florida out there. And it's just absolutely something. We're going to go back to work, but thought you'd enjoy that.
Thank you for the picture. It's the next best thing to being up there.
And - and we might be able to get you an S-IVB later on. That's if you got room to get that kind of stuff.
Okay, we'll be waiting.
16, Houston. We'll extend the time on commercial TV lines here if - if it looks like we'll get some good shots on the S-IVB.
Okay. I really haven't worked out the angles to tell you exactly how the Sun's going to be, but I have an idea we'll see it pretty nicely from here.
Okay, we'll stand by for it.
Just went to Auto on O2 Heater 3, Houston. We're down to that part in the post-docking checklist.
Okay.
Okay, Gordy, we're down to 0.2 on the Delta - I mean, correction 2.0 on the Delta-P, and we're starting our leak check.
Roger.
We're picking up again on the procedure, Gordy. Cabin pressure's down to 41.
Roger.
16, Houston. In about 30 seconds, a couple non-propulsive vents will open on the booster.
Okay, thank you.
Okay, Houston. The hatch is out.
Roger.
Houston, it looks like Number 10 latch is indeed locked. Let me start by saying all the latches are locked. Number 10 is - is over the ring, but the handle isn't all the way up flush, and we're just going to leave it alone. Thought we'd just tell you about it.
Okay, Ken.
Okay, Houston. The connectors are connected, and we got LM power to CSM, and the system test is okay.
Roger.
And, Gordy, the old Rover's right where it's supposed to be.
That's good.
Houston, 16.
CapCom, 16.
Roger; go ahead.
Okay, Gordy. So when we pitched around, I'd like to tell you a little bit about something we saw on the LM. When we were coming around, out - about 30 or 40 feet out, we had a lot of white particles. Looked like it was coming out from around the Lunar Module. Quite a number of them. And, as we got closer, it looked like to me that the primary - most of the particles were coming bet - from between the ascent propellant tank over quad one and this omni antenna. And it looks like they was being jetted out from either some outgassing or something, and we assumed it's Mylar but are not convinced of that.
We copy that, Charlie.
The only reason we comment on it, it just seemed like there was a awful lot of them.
Okay.
DAC six feet per second, six frames per second.
DAC's - was six frames per second, and what did you say - six feet?
No, just six frames per second. Okay, lo - DAP is - load the DAP, 21101.
And - Okay, that's go. And load Pitch trim a plus -
Okay, just.
Plus 123.
123.
And Yaw is minus 0.2.
Okay.
Okay, load Noun 22 attitude maneuver - monitor - Okay, it's a 90, 325 point - load Noun 22. Pro on that one now.
Okay.
Nine - plus 90 - 09000, plus 325.5 - zero, plus 355.90. Okay; Verb 60 - Verb 63.
set.
GDC align; DET, Reset.
It's Reset.
CB Secs Arm, two, closed.
That's affirmative. I got Secs Arm, two, close, verify.
Okay; that's right. Cue MSFN.
Okay, Houston. We're ready to proceed with the Logic.
Okay, we're standing by.
Secs Logic, Two, On, Up.
There's two Logics on.
Want me to hold the Flight Plan, Ken?
You're Go for Pyro Arm.
Okay. All right, now. Yeah. Before we get ready to get off...
Roger, Houston.
there's a couple of items we need to review, so...
Go ahead.
Okay; why don't we go down to that part?
Yeah.
Okay. Have you armed the pyros?
No, sir. Arm them.
Yeah.
Here comes Pyro A.
Mark. Pyro B.
Mark.
TVC Servo Power, On - Power Number 1.
TVC Servo Power, Number l, is AC1/Main A.
Trans Control Power, On, Up; verify.
Trans Control Power's On.
RHC...
Okay, they look good.
Okay, RHC and THC armed?
They're armed.
Okay, then call P47. Okay, what do you want to do?
Let - let's review before we get into 47.
Okay.
Okay. The - the thing we got to do when we get through here is I want to be sure that there's a - we're gonna come in the last thing we started and we said at the time we hit Sep, I start my clock, and - and then at...
To Auto?
three to five seconds, I thrust for three.
Okay.
Okay?
And you go to Auto - you go to - start your clock and go to Auto.
And go to Auto. At the same time, John hits the Sep.
Okay.
Right?
And we'll all three of the on the line again.
Okay, and I'm going to hold my hand here. Okay; now the next thing is that I want to do this maneuver - is within 30 - at - any time after 30 seconds, I can start my maneuver.
You got to get clear?
Yeah, 30 seconds and clear. We'll go approximately a minute. Okay. They haven't clued us to get off. I guess that's all we're waiting on. Are there any questions?
Houston, we got - We're ready to get off, if you guys are ready.
Roger. You're Go for ejection.
Okay. (onboard): P47.
EMS Mode to Normal.
this display up here? Okay, at five, I go for three.
All righty.
Okay. EMS Mode to Normal.
It's Normal.
Start the DAC.
DAC is started.
Okay. Are you all set? I'll give you a countdown. We'll go at zero. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 -
Mark.
Man, there we go, man.
Okay, we're off, Houston.
Roger.
2, 3, 4. Okay, now, in a minute, we're gonna...
I guess it's gone; I can't see it anymore.
Well, we're not quite...
Computer Activity light out, right?
Okay, and. Okay and go to there.
Verb 49.
Oh, oh, don't - Yeah, okay. Let's go to a minute. Can you see the booster anywhere in sight?
No, it's gone.
Think so?
Yeah.
Okay, I got my BMAGs caged. All off.
Okay.
All righty. I'm ready.
Okay.
Enter. Pro. Is that the right attitude?
Yeah.
Okay.
Confirm that.
All righty. Go.
Okay. SECS Pyro Arm, Two, Safe.
Okay, looks good.
CMC manoeuver?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Do you have your pyro...
Your Pyro Arms are Two going to Safe.
Okay, SECS Logic, Two, Off.
SECS Logic, Two, Off.
CB, SECS Arm, Two, Open.
SECS Arm, l, 2, Open. There's another strap.
S-IVB/LM Sep - Okay, I'll.
Okay, LM Sep, two, open.
I got them. Okay. The O2 Tank Isol Valve is gray.
Okay. It says O2 Tank 3 Isol valve talkback gray.
Hey, what - did - didn't we...
Mapping Camera On switch is supposed to go to Off.
21101. And it doesn't look like we're yawing enough. Oh, I know what it is.
Mapping Camera, On, to Off.
We - we left it in the - no, you put a 63 in there. But, boy, that's.
All right.
What do we do?
Mapping Camera On should be Off.
I got it. Pan camera...
Pan Camera Power should be Off. Service Module/AC Power should be Off.
Well, I can't.
I can get that one.
Okay, Houston. We're doing our maneuver, and we'll tell you as soon as we have a visual.
Which way should it come out of?
Well, that's why I got this....
Okay, Ken.
ball set here. We have to get rid of that thing.
Yeah.
It floated...
That's John's.
pain in the neck.
Sorry.
Oh, here it is.
It is a pain.
Okay; we have rolled right 20 degrees.
Man, we fired some jets, I'll tell you.
Yeah, you can see those Mylar particles getting blown off of the.
Rolling to 90 - Oh, you can feel this thing kind of...
Service Module/AC Power to Off.
Okay, Houston. The post-LM injection - ejection checklist is complete.
Roger. And, for your information, we're unable to get lines from Goldstone to Houston for live TV; however, we're going to record any TV you give us for later playback. Over.
We'll do it for you.
Houston, Casper is out of his bag; and we got the S-IVB in the window. And the TV is transmitting pictures of it now, and if you want to do your maneuver with it, we're well clear.
Okay, we copy a Go for the S-IVB maneuver.
That's the attitude maneuver we're talking about.
They'll start the maneuver about 4:10 GET.
Okay.
16, your TV down-link looks good out at the site; however, we can't see it here in Houston live.
Okay. Well we're still adjusting the - all those good things.
Okay.
The S-IVB maneuver - attitude maneuver is in progress now.
Rog. We can see it maneuvering. I tell you, they never make movies like these.
Gotcha.
We'd like Auto Track on the High Gain, please.
You got it.
Thank you.
Gordy, we've - we lost the - the monitor picture, and we're gonna try to power the TV set down. We're gonna check all the connections, and it's got a lot of horizontal lines. And you really can't even make out the image. It started out okay, and then while John was taking a picture, it - the monitor picture went out. So we're gonna try to take a look at it. It's got a whole bunch of horizontal lines.
Okay, we'll go to...
It looks like maybe multiple images.
We'll go to the site. Standby.
16, Houston. The maneuver is complete. We're standing by for your Go for the evasive burn.
Okay, stand by one.
Okay, Gordy, we're all set. It looks like it's almost 90 degrees to us.
Okay. On the TV problem, we had a good picture out at the site there at the first, but then we started losing signal strength, which would - doesn't really tell us whether anything is wrong with your monitor set or not.
Okay. Well, we're gonna take pictures like it's working, and you can check it out later.
Okay.
And we are all set.
Roger.
16, Houston. Goldstone says they're getting a good picture, and so your trouble is worth the effort there, and we'll start the evasive burn at 4:18 even.
Okay, Gordy, thank you. We got another spectacular view of the Earth down here. The polar ice cap. We can see the whole sphere, and the United States is absolutely spectacular.
How about that.
And out the other side, we've got a crescent Moon.
In fact, you can see Lake Mead, Gordy; very clearly.
No kidding?
We can see her moving away now, Gordon, and she's just slowly picking up a little speed there. Only way you can tell it's moving is against the - the particles in the background. I don't think you can see those on TV, but it's - it looks like there's a million stars out behind the S-IVB as it moves off.
Roger, John.
Now the evasive burn is complete, now.
And - Roger. And as she moves out of sight, the old Apollo 16 crew would really like to express their thanks and appreciation to the guys at the Marshall Space Flight Center that gave such a phenomenal ride. Not to mention the Boeing Company on the First Stage, North American on the Second, McDAC on the Third, IBM on the IU. It was superb all the way.
Okay, John, I'll speak to them. Thank you.
And you might relay to old Mike Wash, thanks a lot for his help. We know he's leaving, and we're sure glad we didn't have to use any of that training he gave us.
Okay, we'll sure do that. He's just about to walk out the door.
Gordy, up off - looks like Alaska - up maybe a little farther north - is a pretty good swirl pattern. Looks like a pretty good storm up there.
Roger.
Apollo 16, here is a word from the auxiliary CapCom here.
Good luck, you fellows. Take it easy, and hope everything works out all right.
Kind wordks, Mike. Thank you.
Say again?
Thank you for all your trouble. We sure enjoyed working with you.
Well, was sure my pleasure, John; thank you a lot. Good-bye and good luck.
Thank you, now.
Okay and the - the S-IVB has drifted maybe half a mile away now, so we went ahead and turned off the tube.
Okay.
John, just before you turned the mon - the TV off, was the monitor still giving you trouble?
That's affirmative.
Okay, thank you.
I guess it's about time for a little Verb 49 to the P52 attitude. How's that suit you?
Sounds good.
Gordy, the - I can't get over the view of that Earth. None of the pictures just do it justice. Absolutely beautiful.
We're kind of getting the idea that you're impressed.
Man, the thing about it, Gordy, is that the whole Southern United States, Mexico, and that - and - and Florida and Cuba and the Virgin Islands down that way - they're all clear of clouds. It's just fantastic!
Did you take some good pictures?
Got some.
The way we're going, we may have to get a reload before we get to the Moon.
As a matter of fact, you can see as far north as Lake Michigan and Lake Superior.
Sounds great.
And all the way down past the Yucatan and - and into the Central America.
Houston, we've got the cabin back up some now, and our LM/CM Delta-P gauge is reading 0.6, and that's probably due to that Delta on the cabin. And the O2 Flow Hi light has gone out, so things are getting back to normal.
Okay.
And, Houston, we've done a LM/CM Delta-P; and at time four hours and 30 minutes, we had a plus 0.6.
Roger.
Houston, we're going to take the Waste Stowage valve to Vent this time.
Roger, Ken.
Ah, 16, Houston. Don't know if you can see it or not, but we've started the LOX dump on the S-IVB.
We lost it a little while ago, Gordy.
Roger.
Houston, are you ready for us to start charging Battery B?
Okay, we're Go for the battery charge on B, and we'd also like you to dial in the Flight Plan High Gain angles, minus 47 and 98, and go to Reacq.
Okay, you got the angles, and you're going to Reacq.
Mark.
Houston, 16.
Go ahead.
Okay, we got Bat B charging, and it says volts should be 37½ to 39½, and I'm looking at 33.
Okay.
Charlie, we got - we figured about 8 amp-hours out of that battery, so it'll be a while yet before the voltage gets back up, and EECOM thinks that's okay.
Okay, fine.
Houston, we got 3.4 on 7A. We're gonna vent - we gonna vent the battery to zero, if that's okay.
Stand by.
We'd like you to hold on that a minute.
You're too late, we just vented it.
Okay, it's reading about two-tenths right now.
Roger.
Say again, four-tenths.
Four-tenths.
Houston, got a couple of comments on the EMS for G&C, whenever he has a break.
They're all ears; go ahead.
That must look funny. Okay. We been running null bias tests here for - well, since we got in orbit - each time the checklist calls for it. On the first one, we found that in our hundred-second check, it gained 2.5; then, just before docking, it got 2.6; and I just ran another one, and I have 2.8. And I don't really know what you can do with that, but I just thought I'd go ahead and tell you about that's the magnitude of what we're looking at.
Okay, and our first rough guess as to how the SCS GDC system is performing, it looks like it's well within spec in pitch, yaw, and roll, as far as its drift measurements go.
Okay, Ken and John, we got that.
16, Houston. Whenever you're ready, we're ready to load the PTC REFSMMAT.
Okay, you have P00 and Accept.
Okay.
Ken, sorry about that. We didn't get coordinated here. We don't have an uplink site, so go back to Block until after 5 hours, and we'll try it again then.
All righty. We're back in UpTel to Block. And we're going to be kind of hanging up here for a while anyhow, while we get our suits off. It - it turns out to be a pretty interesting operation with these new B-suits.
Roger.
I'll tell you, Gordy, there were some sights out there that were really something. One of the - one of the things that - most things happened like people had said they would. But there were a couple of things that I had never seen or heard anyone even mention, and maybe they'd been on - been there all along. But one of the things that was really nifty was, while we were in powered flight, both in later stages of the boost and - and during the TLI burn, there were particles that I could see out the window that were going past us in the plus-X direction, and I kept thinking that that was an optical illusion, and I kept going back and looking at it again, and sure enough! And these were after we were in steady state. It wasn't around any kind of a staging event or anything that I was aware of.
Oh, how about that. I haven't heard of that one before.
Then when we - when we scooted out here and you started your nonpropulsive vent, we could see - First, it just looked like - like it was a little mist around the outside when you looked at the Sun. And then the Sun hit it at such an angle that you started getting a - a spectral reflection, and it looked like a rainbow out over the LM. And then after - after that, you could look out my Number 1 window, and apparently the lighting was just right so that it - it had the appearance of - of light streaming off to a point source at infinity. There was a little blank spot in it at the - at what looked like the origin. And then all these streaks were coming back towards you, like you were right in the center of a cone. And these things would change colors. They go to a light - light purple, and then they'd have a little sandy color to them. That was another one that I don't remember ever hearing before, and it was - maybe it was just the lighting on it, but it sure was pretty.
Rog. Enjoying the description.
I'll tell you, you can't wait too many years to make this worth it.
Roger.
Gordy, on that boost, that S-IC is a real freight train. I'll tell you, boy. I can't get over that.
Roger.
Could you folks see that thing on the TV up through staging?
I didn't watch it all the way until it went out of sight. I'll have to check here.
Yeah, I guess we saw even tower jett.
Good show. John's in the middle of his suit doff.
Okay.
And thanks to good old Stu Roosa's suggestion, we wrote in the Flight Plan to be sure and take a look at the fires out there in Africa as we went over, which is something we probably would have forgotten or never even thought about. And they are just as beautiful as everybody's ever said they could be. They're just all over the place. All these little - little yellowish-red dots down there. And there was some - looked like some low overcast in parts of the area, or maybe it was - from our altitude, maybe it was a high overcast. But it just gave - It looked like looking at the lights of a city through fog, and then there were others that were clear. Just something well worth remembering to look for.
Roger. We'll be sure to remind Ron to look for that one.
I tell you, God didn't equip us with enough eyes to see everything that there is to see in the first hour.
Rog.
Gordy, it looks like this whole operation may take us longer than - than we had guessed. Is there any thermal constraint on getting a 52 attitude and going to those other attitudes? Looks like we got some time to go here...
I'll check on that, Ken. We're about...
but I just wondered if that's something we ought to keep in mind.
Okay. We're about to a handover here. I'll check on that and come back to you through Hawaii.
Okay, thank you.
16, we're - through Hawaii now. And you're scheduled in this attitude through 7 hours or - at least, so no problem thermally, and you're not even due to do the P52 for another half hour, so you're plenty ahead.
Okay, that P52 - We're going to come to a decision point; here pretty soon, whether to - you want us to do that and then we'll pick up the suit doffing after that, or we - I'd just as soon go ahead and do the - get all the suits out of the way. And we can do the 52 on schedule, or we can do it after we get the suits off. Does it make any difference to you folks?
Let me check.
If that's what you'd like to do, why don't you go ahead with the - finish up the suits. No problem slipping the 52 a little bit. And we'd like P00 and Accept for that uplink.
Okay, there's P00 and Accept. Is Fredo still around there?
No, he went home about a half hour ago.
16, Houston. The computer is yours.
Hello, Houston; 16. John and I are back up now.
Roger. That up-link is complete. In case you didn't hear me some time ago, the computer is yours.
Okay, we're in Block.
Roger.
And it took us about an hour for me and Charlie to climb out of those suits and stow them. It's really something.
Rog.
16, Houston.
Go ahead, Gordon.
I'm going to hand over to Pete here. He's coming on with a good boost there. He's got a bunch of - P37 PAD and a bunch of Flight Plan updates for you when you get somebody free to do some stenographic work there. Enjoyed the first six hours. Hope the rest of it goes as well.
Gordon, that was beautiful. Tell Flight and the guys down in the trenches, "Man, that was super!"
Okay.
Okay, Houston; 16 here. We're ready to copy the Flight Plan updates.
Roger, 16. At 11 hours in the Flight Plan.
Stand by.
Okay; go ahead.
Roger. At 11 hours, we want to delete "Waste Stowage Vent valve, Close;" and, at 12:15, we will add "Waste Stowage Vent valve, Close."
Okay; copy add at 12:15 "Waste Stowage Vent valve, Close."
Roger. And delete it at 11.
Okay; go ahead.
Roger. Then we've got the change to the CSM Experiments/EVA Checklist having to do with the ultraviolet filter. UV filter apparently did not meet the specs, and we're going to have to make some changes to the exposures at - on several different pages in the checklist.
We'll wait on that; we don't have that checklist out yet, Pete.
Okay; and I've got P37 block data.
Stand by.
Okay, Pete, go ahead with the P37 block data.
Okay. Lift-off plus 15. It's 015:00; 5493; minus 165; 046:40.
Roger; copy. 015:00; 5493; minus 165; 046:40. Over.
Rog. That's correct, Johnny.
Is that all?
Yeah that's all.
Okay. How's the midcourse looking?
Stand by one. We're still looking at it; it looks pretty good right now.
Houston, now have Noun 93; are you happy?
In a minute, 16.
Okay, 16. You can go ahead and program.
16, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. Just wanted to remind you that, before you start the UV photography, we've got to change all the exposures.
Okay.
Pete, 16 here. Go ahead with the update. Give me a page number for the UV, and we'll update the filter settings.
Okay; we've got a whole bunch of pages. We'll start on 2-16.
Okay; go ahead.
Under item 4, we want to change from "20 seconds - 2 frames" to "2 seconds - 2 frames."
Okay; keep going.
Okay; on page 2-17. Item 4, "20 seconds - 2 frames," change to "1/15 second - 2 frames."
Page 2...
Okay; 2-16 - 2-16, line 4, "20 seconds" to "2 seconds," and 2-17, same line is "1/15" versus "20 seconds."
That's affirmative. And on page 2-19, we want to change shutter - under item 5 - we want to change "Shutter 1/15 - 2 frames" to "Shutter 1 - 2 frames."
Okay; "Shutter 1/15" went to "Shutter 1 - 2 frames."
Roger. On page 2-21, we have change from "Shutter 1/15 - 2 frames," to "Shutter 1 - 2 frames."
Okay. That's item 2?
Affirmative; that's item 2.
Okay; that was "Shutter 1" vice "1/15."
Affirmative. And on page 2-22, item 2, change "Shutter 1/15 - 2 frames" to "Shutter 1/2 - 2 frames."
Copy; 1/2.
On page 2-23, item 4, "20 seconds - 2 frames" to "2 seconds - 2 frames."
Okay, copy.
And on page 2-24, under "At T start plus 7 minutes", change "20 seconds - 2 frames" to "1/15 seconds - 2 frames."
Can you say where that is again?
Okay, it's on page 2-24, and it's under the heading that says "At T start plus 7 minutes."
Okay. What was it? I'm sorry; I got all of that, but didn't get what it was.
Okay. It's change "20 seconds - 2 frames" to "1/15 second - 2 frames."
Okay, copy.
Okay, on page 2-36 about 1/3 of the way down the page where it says "Configure lens f/8,1/30, 4" - We want to change that to "Configure lens 1/2 stop between f/5.6 and f/8, 1/15, and 4."
Okay, that's ½ stop between f/5.6 and f/8, and the shutter to 1/15?
That's affirmative, Charlie.
And on that same page, about 2/3 of the way down, under the step that says "Electrophoresis Power, On," we want to add a note to hold for instructions from MSFN.
Okay, understand hold for instructions from MSFN. Is that before the Power, On?
Negative. That's immediately after Power, On, and I won't read you that instruction now; we'll wait until we get to that in the Flight Plan.
Okay.
16, Houston.
Go ahead, Pete.
Right, John. This Verb 49 that's at seven hours in the Flight Plan, we want you to hold up on that so we can have a look at the attitude.
16, Houston. We had a temporary very short loss of comm there. Did you do anything on board to return comm?
We haven't touched a thing there, Pete.
Roger. Everything seems okay now. It was very brief, but we lost it for a while.
Okay. We didn't even hear any squelch or any of that noise...
Roger.
like you usually get when you lose comm.
Roger. Understand.
16, Houston. The attitude in the Flight Plan for the Verb 49 is okay. You can go ahead with it.
