Okay, Houston. You have Omni Delta.
Roger. Copy Omni Delta.
Houston, 16. Over.
Go ahead, 16.
Okay, Pete. I think we've figured out what all this white particles that's coming off the LM. On the - on the side that - of the LM that's between this omni antenna and the APS - the ascent propulsion propellant tank, there's a surface that was gray that - that is now - for some reason, the thing is all strip - striped looking. It's a surface that's really almost perpendicul - parallel to the plus-X [side] of the LM. And it - it's all tattered and torn and shredded - looks like shredded wheat, is what it reminds me of. Over.
Roger; copy.
And that's the only surface we have that looks like that, and we continually get particles shredding off from that.
Roger; copy. [Long pause.]
Charlie, we're having a little trouble figuring out which surface you're talking about. Can you give us a little better description of what you were talking about there?
Okay. We - On the plus-X side - on Ken's side - the surface right below the docking target that runs parallel to the plus-X of the LM and right into the top of the APS propellant tank.
Okay. Right below the docking target, and it runs right into the top of the APS propellant tank.
That's affirm, and that axis is almost - ia almost parallel to the plus-X axis.
Roger. [Pause.]
And whatever that surface was, is all shredded, and - as I said, like shredded wheat, and it's continually spitting particles off.
Okay. In other words, you can see it deteriorating now, huh?
That's affirm. It's spitting particles off - about five or ten a second.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, 16. We got it, and we're going to take a look at it now.
Okay. [Long pause.]
And, 16, we've got a correction to the G&C checklist, page 9-4, whenever you get ready to copy.
Let's catch that after the UV photos.
Rog. Will do.
16, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. On panel 382, the Primary Glycol Evap(orator) Inlet Temp valve, we want to adjust it slowly to get that temp to about - to Evap Out to about 45 degrees.
You want us [garble].
And you'll have to go toward them.
You want us to go into manual and set the evaporator - you want to set the temperature - to 45 with the manual while we have the waterboiler going, is that correct?
That's affirmative. [Long pause.]
16, you can go ahead and set it. Move it toward Max, and you'll have to go pretty slow with it.
Okay. Can we stand by just a minute?
Affirmative.
Thanks. I got to open up that panel and all that stuff.
Roger.
16, Houston. Can you go Manual on the High Gain?
Roger. [Long pause.]
Charlie, it was in Reacq, and it was drifting around. [LPause.]
Okay, it's in Manual now.
Roger. We got it.
Houston, is that close enough on that evap temp? Looks like I can't hit 45; I can hit 43 or about 46 or 7. [Pause.]
Affirmative, 16. That looks good enough.
16, Houston. On this panel that you were looking at that the particles are coming off of. That's not a hard piece of structure there; that's just a thermal protection covering - a standoff - that's over the top of the RCS A system tanks. And all the RCS [System] A tanks are under there, and what we're concerned about is that one of those tanks may be leaking and affecting that thermal protection blanket on top.
Okay.
Okay, we are considering the possibility of taking a look ...
The - Don...
...at the tank systems.
I'm not sure. The picture that we're trying to paint here is like you had painted something and then all the paint started to peel off. It's all stripping up like an old, real - like you painted an old barn and had the paint come off of it. And it's all standing out. You can see it - kind of released from the surface. And I don't know if that fits your picture or not.
Roger. I think that's the way we understand it. Are you still getting those particles coming off pretty fast there now?
They're not coming off as fast as they were a while back, but maybe that's our Sun angle has changed, making them not quite as obvious.
Roger.
Hey, Don. We're ready to - looks like we ought to be deactivating the primary evaporator. Did you want us to keep it on for a while or something?
Stand by a minute. Negative, Ken. You can go ahead and shut her down.
All righty.
Okay, Don. We got the evaporator secured.
Roger; copy.
16, Houston. On that Panel 382, in the manual control, the mixing valve, looks like we are going to have to play with that valve every time we change attitudes. So you might just leave that panel open or closed, for the two of the fasteners, so it will be easy to get into.
Okay. Looks like that's going to be fun around the Moon, doesn't it?
Rog. We are looking at that right now, Ken.
All right.
...here now?
Supposed to. Trying to get it in the (garble)
I'll get the second one up. How about a - an antenna angle of minus 85 and Yaw 153. Minus 85 -
Okay.
Yaw 153. Is it (garble)?
No. We got comm.
Oh! I bet that's what I heard.
(Sigh) Well, I can see I was wrong.
In what?
The only guys that don't understand space flight are not the flight planners (laughter).
Yeah. The food people.
I'll say.
[Laughter.] They is other folks in that operation that don't understand. Well, let's see. I guess you got to cut this thing first.
Yeah.
Scissors, John?
Yeah. I got them.
The old head full again?
Yeah. Really smarts. You want me to unloosen this down here? Put it right up here.
Okay, I've got one of those bags back here that you can (garble) orange juice in.
Put that in the trash?
The trash bag's done untied itself.
Yeah, I ain't sure that's going to be an acceptable solution. I'm afraid I - Maybe we ought to use one of those TSBs after all. Let's try that.
Avoid that one.
Oh, here come de Sun. Order in the courtroom; here come de Sun.
What did you get, Ken?
I got one. Okay, didn't realize you had one that was empty. Excuse me.
(Garble).
That is obviously not one of the bags for me to fill up and use for my other water stuff.
Thank you, sir.
Guess we ought to tape the things. I don't know. Tape up the bags because if we throw them down in there loose, pretty soon we'll have so much stuff down in there we won't know what to do with them. What do you think?
Yeah. We ought to be able to make some kind of a lid to go over it. Tape a lid down or something? Don't you think?
Sock me a pill. Is there any left?
Yeah. Here's one right here.
Here you go.
Okay. What do you have to do? Take it loose, or just...
Yeah. I guess. Take the paper off that thing?
No, no. No. Just stick it in the way it is.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Hmm; I took the paper off.
No, you don't need to. You pull it out - just pull the thing out and stuff it in there and it'll be fine.
It's not edible paper, huh?
I'm thinking about sticking a window shade in over here.
Yeah, you ought to have a little Sun. Well, it's really - ought to end up in here.
What?
Yeah.
The Sun?
Yeah. If you want to put that window shade in, it wouldn't be a - it would be an appropriate thing, I bet. Looks like we're about ready to - Well, we're on Omni B now (garble). maybe the high gain would pick up. Well, it's fluctuating back and forth.
Just leave those bags out until we get a whole mess of them, and then we'll put them all in the cupboard and stuff them in there.
Yeah.
That is going to be a bright bear out there, isn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah (garble). What are we doing?
We're getting ready to go - do a P23. I - You trying to close it or open it?
I was trying to close it.
Okay.
Go ahead.
I'll get it. Boy, that comm is less than optimum.
Okay, now. Looks like I'd better heat up that evaporator, huh?
That's falling off a little bit. See?
Okay. I hate to - (garble) if I put some Velcro on it - a little bit.
Okay, Ken. You want to get down here and P23 your way through this thing?
Yes, sir. I'll be down there in just a second.
Being a big manual guy, huh?
Huh?
16, Houston. Go to High Gain.
Being a big manual person?
Okay, here's two (garble). You're gonna have to screw in this thing, it looks like. It's really bad that we have to play with that thing. Can you - did we stop it in the attitude?
Yeah, we're here.
Okay. Do you think we're gonna - you gonna be able to work on that food business while I'm down here?
Yeah, maybe. I don't know.
I can probably work on this thing by myself, if I - Darned umbilicals.
Hey, Ken, could you put that in the jettison bag?
Yes, sir, (garble)
When you get a chance?
What is it?
It's all those screws and...
Oh, yeah. I was gonna - you got to wrap up this tape hanging down.
Well, you need - Here's two more that came off.
Oh, wait - wait a minute, I'll get some tape to hold it together.
You've got - What? Is yours off over there, too, Charlie?
What's off?
Oh, just - is it just over here underneath the docking ring that it's off?
Yeah. Well, I can see the edge of that panel over here and over there.
16, go High Gain.
Yeah, it looks like some more of that gray stuff come off of it.
16, Houston. Give us a High Gain Antenna.
Okay, John. I'm gonna see what I can do here. Let me see if I can find me a G&C Checklist, P23.
By golly, it's right there. Some things we do pretty well, I guess. This program has figured out how to find stars.
Well, I'll tell you something, you guys. There may be a star out there, but I sure don't see it.
Even in the sextant?
Oh, yeah, it's right in the middle of the sextant.
What'd you get for (garble)...
It's (garble).
(Garble).
Sure ain't in the telescope, Ken.
Oh...
It's right in the sextant...
Oh, yeah; and it's fantastic.
But there's...
Oh, it's just great.
But there's just - that telescope is just useless unless you want to look at the quad or the radar.
Yeah, but what star is it?
It's 40.
Do you see anything leaking out over there, Charlie? Any particles coming off the LM?
No.
Huh?
No.
You see any particles coming off?
There are a few out there.
(Garble).
See, you can't see -
Yeah.
Whatever it is, it's up in the -
It looks like if it had been a leak - in a propellant tank, it would have - it would have - blown up. Blown the whole thing out of there instead of shredded it.
Okay.
Well, whatever it was coming out of there with full force, so it must have had some pressure behind it.
It's still coming out of there?
Do you see little particles?
Yeah.
Does that look like particles to you, vapor - vapor or just a...
Yeah.
Is that what vapor particles look like?
Yeah, I think.
Okay. Here goes.
Houston, 16. Over.
They reading us?
Houston, 16. Over.
We've got a pretty low signal here. Let me go to the High Gain [Antenna]. Okay. You got - put it in ReAcq. There you go.
Got them?
Yeah. With good signal strength.
Houston, this is 16. Over.
Roger, 16. You're loud and clear [garble].
Roger. I see something coming off of the Lunar Module now that I - I haven't been up here looking out the window. I just noticed - it's - it's - it looks like it's coming out of a vent or something. [End of CM transcript until Day 2 at 024:53:25.] And from looking at it through the window, it is beneath this sheet that's sort of shredded off, and it's right between the - that spiral antenna and above the big APS tank. But this is definitely coming out in a stream right now, looks like, and not very many particles, but they're just being propelled away from the Lunar Module at some velocity.
Okay. Roger. Let's get in there and take a look at it.
Roger. I think we're going to have to get into the LM and take a look at the RCS system's gauges to tell what's going on here. Do you notice any color or anything more descriptive about that stream?
Well, my opinion of the color is that it's a brownish material.
Roger.
And it has long - some of it has long flakes to it, and - but some of it is just little particles.
Roger. [Long pause.]
16, we'd like to have a look at the LM/CM Delta-P before you start pressurizing it also.
Okay. Do you want us to stop the P23 and go in there right now? Over.
That's affirmative, 16. [Pause.]
Okay. [Pause.]
Do you want us to stay in this attitude, Pete? [Long pause.]
And, Pete, you might be thinking about what kind of a - where you want us to enter the checklist.
Roger. I understand. We'll get back to you in a minute, Charlie.
Rog. The Activation Checklist, I guess.
Rog. [Long pause.]
We're up to 0.6 on the LM/CM Delta-P, which is what it was, due to our cabin pressure difference. I don't think it has leaked any.
Roger. We copied; and, Charlie, we want to start on page 2-1 in the Activation Checklist.
Okay. [Pause.]
Pete, how about if I go to a wider dead band?
We want to - first of all, Ken, we want to roll to 91 degrees, and that'll boresight the aft Omni toward the Earth, and also we want the Waste Stowage Vent valve, Closed.
Okay, now. Take it a little slower here. You wanted to do a maneuver to a roll of 90. Is that affirm?
A roll of 91.
Okay. You want the other attitudes to be the same as I have now?
That's affirmative.
That's affirmative, 16. [Pause.]
Okay, I have 91.00. And we'll use the present pitch and the present yaw, and you get the Waste Vent, Closed.
Roger. The Waste Stowage Vent valve, Closed.
We've done that. Okay, we're starting our maneuver now.
Okay, Houston. We're opening the LM pressurization valve now.
Roger.
[Garble.] [Pause.]
How's it look? [Long pause.]
Ken, we're also thinking about trying to get some TV looks at that venting condition, if it doesn't interfere with the activation.
Okay. I'll tell you what. We've stowed the camera aftwards. Wait until they get in the LM, and then I'll go down and get that thing out. I can do that while they're going in there.
Roger; understand.
16, can you Zero the Optics? All you have to do is hit the switch. It's within 10 degrees.
Okay, Houston. How far along in this activation would you like us to go?
Stand by a minute, Charlie.
Step 7, page 2-3; 2-3, step 7.
Go to 2-3, Step 7, Charlie.
Okay. We start on 2-1, right?
That's affirmative. [Long pause.]
INCO, Flight.
Okay, Don. They're on their way into the LM now. And Charlie's in there and John's joining him, and I'll work on getting the TV camera out.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. We're going onto LM Power right now.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay. We've gone to Reset and Off.
Roger, 16.
The time was 08:36:34.
Roger. [Long pause.]
And Ken, when you get the camera set up, ready to operate, we'll go to Medium beamwidth on the High Gain Antenna.
Okay, and it's going to be a few minutes.
Rog. Understand.
Okay, Houston. You should have the data now, according to our checklist.
Roger. [Pause.]
We're down through Step 7 on Page 2, 3.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Houston, can we bring up our RCS quad A and B meter, take a look at them?
Stand by one. [Long pause.]
16, I guess we don't need the - the heaters. We're looking at all the data now. [Pause.]
Okay, We didn't say "heater"; we said "meter." [Pause.]
Roger; stand by. [Pause.]
I guess we can take your word for it, that's for sure.
Rog. We're - we're looking at all the data now, I think.
Okay, fine. [Long pause.]
Our - our System A RCS meter, which is not powered, is at 92 percent quantity, and B is a little over 100.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay, and I'm ready to give you a TV from the outside. [Pause.]
Roger, Ken. Understand.
16, based on what we're looking at, the System A pressures look okay. We don't see any problem with the tanks. [Pause.]
Okay, but it - it sure is something strange coming out of that. I never saw anything like that on LM-4. [Pause.]
I mean, I'm not normally a rabble-rouser; it - this just ain't - something - something funny going on here. [Long pause.]
Would you like to have the TV with the wide beam outside? [Long pause.]
Yeah, Ken, I guess so. We haven't had a picture yet here.
No, I was waiting for you. You said something about some High Gain things you wanted to do, and I hadn't done any of those things yet.
Oh, we wanted to go to Medium beamwidth on the High Gain, and we're ready for the pictures anytime. [Pause.]
Well, if it looks okay to you, Houston, do you want us to fire this thing down now? [Pause.]
Stand by just a minute. We're - we're going to take one last long look here, but everything looks okay so far.
That's great. [Long pause.]
16, on Panel 16 in the LM, under the PQGS display breaker, and let's push that one in and we'll take a look at quantities. [Pause.]
Okay, Don. And do you have a picture now? I'm not going to zoom in until - until you've got a good picture.
Okay. That one's in, and the quantities went to 100 each. [Pause.]
Looks like the TV's in standby, Ken. [Pause.]
Does that help?
Rog. [Long pause.]
Quantities look good, 16.
That's affirmative; they're both 100.
Okay, 16. We are ready to - to back out. You pull that breaker?
...back down. We'll pull the breaker first and back down. Thank you.
Roger.
Okay, Don. Can you see any picture yet? [Pause.]
Negative, Ken.
Ken, we're still not getting a picture.
Okay: I'm in Transmit. [Pause.] Got a good monitor this time. I got FM transmitter. I got the S-Band Aux to TV.
Okay, Ken. I think the TV's okay. I think the problem is here. It will take us about another minute, I guess. [Pause.]
Okay, I'll stand by. I'm gonna have to show you the part we're looking at.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, Ken. Now we're getting a picture. [Long pause.]
Okay. Can you see the docking target, and do you have a grid? I've got a grid on my monitor that you should be able to correlate with. Do you have that available? If you don't, I'll just try to talk you in towards the frame.
Stand by just a minute. [Long pause.]
Ah, Ken. I guess we don't have a grid right now.
Okay. Right now, the center of my picture is just about on the center of the docking target. Does that look like your picture?
Affirmative.
Okay, I'm gonna move the camera up and there is a flat surface which is now just about on the center of my picture, and it's pointing away from me. This is the one we can see it peeling off of.
Roger.
I'm gonna try to zoom in on it, and I'll see the best monitor picture I can get, and you may have to talk me in on some of the other.
Okay.
Houston. Our Activation Checklist says leave the Cabin Repress breaker, Closed, but we found it Open. How do you want to play that one?
Stand by me a minute, John. [Pause.] Okay, John. We want that one Opened on the way out.
Open on the way out. Rog. [Long pause.]
That's real good, Ken. Hold it right there.
I can't hang on [laughter] I'm stuck here; I'll get back with you.
Okay. You had a real good picture there, where you were. [Pause.]
Okay. [Long pause.]
Yeah, Ken. We're seeing the stuff coming off of there now. [Long pause.]
Ken, while we are looking at it, we're trying to get a hack on whether or not there are any jets firing across that surface that would correlate with those particles coming off.
Yes, sir; there are. My A thruster seems to bang on it quite a bit. And we put the LM Power back to CSM at 08:52; I'd say about 15 seconds ago.
Roger, copy. [Long pause.]
Don, are you guys through with this picture, or do you need something else?
Hang on just a minute, Ken. [Long pause.]
Ken, we see occasional particles come off, but we're not seeing a stream. Do you see any streaming like John was talking about earlier?
No, sir. Well, maybe - Well, you know, we're in an entirely different Sun angle now, and it's not clear to me that we don't see different things. Maybe John can take this thing and show you where it was coming from, because I didn't see it.
Roger.
Yeah, I'd be glad to - I'd be only too happy to point it out.
Rog.
Okay, Houston. On our monitor, the place where the stuff was coming out is at A and 1 on the grid. Over.
Understand; it's A-1?
Roger. It's the upper right-hand corner of that square, A-1.
Roger.
Okay. He's going to put it right in the middle of the picture.
Okay. Let's try that.
And, Pete, I'll tell you, that Cabin Pressure Relief valve - I mean the Cabin Repress valve in the LM will really give you apoplexy, boy!
Roger.
Okay. It's right in the middle.
Okay, understand. It's right in the middle of the picture now. Okay. I think we're seeing some of it now.
No. No, you aren't, Pete. What you're seeing is particles that are floating off, drifting particles.
Okay. Can you see the venting now?
No, it stopped. When we maneuvered it out of the Sun, it stopped peeling off.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay, Pete. I take that back. You can see a little of it as the particles stream off. When they get out into the Sun, you can see them. And it looked like they have the same trajectory as the other ones, but it's very few right now.
Roger. Kind of going out the top center, slightly right center of the picture?
Yeah, that's about right. Yeah.
Rog.
Okay, I was off comm over there. How about bringing the old LMP up to speed? [Long pause.]
Ken, can we roll to get this area back in the sunlight where we could have a better look at it? [Long pause.]
Okay, Pete. We're just about ready to maneuver. We are maneuvering.
Okay. I guess you'll want to go back the way you came and go back to that attitude where you had good sunlight on it.
Okay, that's the P23 attitude.
Roger.
Okay, and ever so often, I see a particle come out from that region at some accelerated velocity, like it's leaving the spacecraft.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay, Pete, for my edification, were all the - the PAD, the blanket pressures, the helium tanks looking okay on the RCS?
Affirmative. They were, Charlie. [Long pause.]
Charlie, we - just as a point of verification here, did you have floodlights when you went into the LM? We didn't show any - any current drain when you went in there.
Yes, sir. Just like the refrigerator, it came right on, with the hatch about a quarter of the way open. And when I went to All, we had all the floodlights.
Roger. [Pause.]
But you can see a lot better over here when you take your shades off.
Rog [laughter]. [Long pause.]
And, Pete, every time the - one of the Command Module, Service Module, RCS plus-X jets fires towards that - that one over the hatch here, it really blows that stuff off.
Roger; copy.
Okay, Houston. As of this moment, that area is completely free of particles. It wouldn't do you any good to show you any TV of it, because it's not doing anything.
Roger; copy. [Long pause.]
Okay, John. I guess that's about all the data we're going to get. We're going to have to think that over a while, so we'll go ahead and stow the TV camera and get back to the Flight Plan.
Yes, sir. It's certainly an unusual thing; and, furthermore, it's very strange how this upper surface here has flaked off behind the - behind the - docking target, which I guess you - you can't see that on the TV. I couldn't see it on the monitor. Can you see it on the TV?
We get a pretty good look at a portion of it. Looks like a lot of, like Charlie said, shredded wheat.
Yeah, it looks like about a half - a half inch or an inch of grass growing out of the - of the surface there.
Yeah, we got a pretty good look at that.
Okay.
I don't think we know what it means yet, but we did get a good look at it.
Rog. [Long pause.]
Charlie might say that looks Ba-a-ad.
You're right [laughter]. [Long pause.]
Did you have a TV picture of the cockpit there? [Pause.]
Affirmative; real briefly there.
[Laughing] That's what I was afraid of. [Long pause.]
Okay, 16. We'd like to get the Waste Stowage Vent valve, Open, again now. [Long pause.]
And, Pete, the Lunar Module looks very clean. There was very few particles in it, and that's just about it. Over.
Roger; understand. And, Char - Charlie, we'd like to go into the Flight Plan here at 12:15 and delete closing the Vent - Waste Stowage Vent valve, and move that to 13:15.
Okay; we're moving it to 13:15.
Roger.
16, for your information, we're not going to do Midcourse Correction l, and we're looking at about 12 feet per second on Midcourse Correction 2.
That's great.
Don, do you anticipate any significant change in the Verb 49 maneuver angles due to our slip in time?
Negative; none at all, Ken.
Affirmative. Still with you.
Okay. Hey, let me give you a couple of comments here in real time so you can write them down. Yeah, one of the things that had been mentioned was this business about reflections in the sextant when you're doing P23s, and I've got a - gee it's a beautiful picture of the Earth's horizon; the optics are just super, and we've got a - got a - what looks like an inverted - sort of like a mirror image - in the opposite side away from the horizon. It's really quite obvious...
That's in the ...
...and you can just see the bright areas.
Roger. That's in the sextant.
And it's about - yeah, it's just in the sextant, and it's about - oh, I don't know how to give you a percentage of the intensity, but it is much less intense than - than the thing in the Earth. That's - that's very bright. And the star is - gee, the match between the Earth horizon as seen through the fixed line of sight and the star line of sight is just perfect. It's really nice. The only thing I can't see as well as I'd like is the crosshairs, and with the illumination turned up to full bright, they just don't stand out when the old Earth is in the field of view. When I get them down against the Earth itself, then I can see the dark line, but when I get it out in the sky beyond the Earth's horizon, I just don't see it as well as I'd like.
Roger. Copy.
And, as you probably noticed there, we used that little adaptive short P23 erasable program, which is really swift; that thing just fires these things off, and I don't feel like in any way we're having to take short cuts on the pointing accuracy. The only time it takes now is to dress up the substellar point on initial acquisition. That's what we're doing now, and it seems to take quite a while.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Next time we design a spacecraft, Don, we should remember not to put the optics in the kitchen.
Roger. Understand.
That's the first Mark, isn't it? I think he cycled on it. [Long pause.]
Yes, he's been taking a little bit longer each one.
16, Houston.
Go ahead, Don.
Rog; we are going to dilute - delete that maneuver to thermal attitude that's coming up in the Flight Plan at about 9:30 - in the Flight Plan. And also, when you get a chance, we want you to zero Noun 26, because there's a possibility that if you hit a Noun 30 with what you got in Noun 26 now, you'll get a transfer to a wrong place in the program. [Pause.]
Understand. Zero Noun 26.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Boy, you guys are reading our minds up there, or down there. [Pause.]
What do you want to do? Just go right into PTC?
Negative; we're going to do the P52 that's at - down around 10:40 in the Flight Plan.
Understand. And then go to PTC, huh? [Pause.]
Negative; we got some UV photos at 12:20 that have to be done at 12:20. [Long pause.]
Oh, yeah.
16, you can go ahead and torque them.
16, we got a state vector update, if you'll go to Accept. [Pause.]
Rog; you've got P00 and Accept.
Roger. [Pause.] And, also if you can copy, we've got a change to the G&C Checklist, Page 9-4. [Long pause.]
Okay, I'm on Page 9-4, Don.
Roger; under Baker, column Baker, line 4, change from 11522 to 13353, and, on line 5, change 13000 to 00041. [Pause.]
Okay, I'm on Page G/9-4, column Bravo, line 04 is 13353; that replaces 11522. Line 05, 00041 replacing 13000.
That's affirmative, Ken.
All right, sir. [Long pause.]
And, 16, you can have the computer. [Pause.]
Okay, we're back to Block. [Pause.]
Roger. [Long pause.]
Don, you folks ready for a little fuel cell purge?
I believe we're ready.
Don, fuel - Fuel Cell 1 purge, O2 purge is in progress.
Roger; copy.
16, Houston. We're looking at an O2 flow of less than one pound per hour, and we'd like to know if you have closed the waste storage vent valve.
Negative.
Roger; understand negative.
Houston, do you want us to dump the waste water down to about 10?
It's already 60.
Okay, ten percent it'll be.
Roger.
16, let's terminate the charge on Battery Bravo.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay, we're showing about 29 percent on our waste water, Don. How does that look with what you all have on the ground?
We're looking at about 30.5 percent now.
Okay, so you want us to terminate ours at 10 percent; our gauge reading of 10 percent will be good enough?
That's affirmative, 16.
Okay.
Okay, we've terminated the waste dump.
Roger.
Houston, we vented the batteries and it went to 0.4, looks - maybe 0.2 now.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Charlie, did you get a reading on that battery before you vented it?
Roger. 0.9. [Pause.]
Charlie, was that 0.9?
Affirmative.
Roger.
16, could you give us a reading on LM/CM Delta-P? [Long pause.]
Rog. LM/CM Delta-P is 0.2, which is what it was in the altitude chamber, and that apparently zero on our gauge.
Roger; understand. [Long pause.]
And the pressure equalization valve is verified closed.
Roger.
16, Houston. On this UV photography, we want to be sure we go Mode, Free. I think last time, we didn't get that.
No, we did get it last time. [Long pause.]
Pete, on the last sequence, we did go Free.
Say again.
I said, on that first UV sequence we had, we did go Free.
Roger.
16, go Omni Delta.
16, when you finish the UV photos, we'd like you to go on and start the PTC right away, if you concur with it. [Pause.]
Be glad to.
Rog; and, in connection with that, we'll ask you to stow the High Gain prior to going into PTC. [Long pause.]
Okay. We'll stow it.
Roger.
Hey, Don, you really can get some pretty stable initial conditions.
Good deal.
Say, Houston; Casper.
Go ahead, Casper.
It looks - it looks to me like we've used a - a lot more RCS propellant than I would have guessed. Is it just our onboard readings or is that a fact? [Pause.]
We're seeing apparently some biases in the P - in the RCS sensors up there. [Pause.] Stand by - wait one. We'll get you some readings, Ken.
Okay; thank you.
Omni Alpha, 16. [Pause.]
Omni Alpha.
16, prior to entering PTC, go Manual and Wide on the High Gain and minus 52 and 270. [Pause.]
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay; you got Manual and Wide, minus 52 and 270.
Roger; thank you.
16, Houston. We're going to have to delay going into the PTC until after we close the Waste Stowage Vent valve at 13:50. [Pause.]
Okay. We're supposed to wait 20 minutes for the rates to damp anyhow, huh?
Sounds right. [Long pause.]
Ken, on the RCS quantities, I've got some numbers for you here. [Pause.]
Go ahead.
Roger. The - Quad A is reading 1.5 low. All the rest of them are - are reading high. Quad Bravo is 0.6, Charlie is 5.7, and Delta is 5.6. [Pause.] And our Delta on the Flight Plan is a plus 5 total right now. [Long pause.]
Okay, is that - is that pounds, or percent, or degrees, or what? Over.
The - the total of 5 pounds is pounds.
Okay. Thank you.
Roger. [Long pause.]
16, Houston. We're starting to see a high temperature in the subsatellite battery in the SIM bay, so what we'd like to do is go ahead and close the Waste Stowage Vent valve now and get into PTC as soon as we can.
Roger. Waste Stowage Vent going Closed now. [Long pause.]
Houston, how do the rates look to you for going into PTC now?
Stand by one, and we'll take a look. [Long pause.]
The rates look good and you can go ahead into PTC.
Roger.
16, we're going to let you get in - well into the PTC here. And monitor - the primary loop rad out temps and let it stabilize, and then it may be necessary to go down to Panel 382 and adjust it again to try to keep that temperature at about 45 degrees Fahrenheit.
Okay.
And, Ken, if we have to do that, we'd suggest you mark a place down there so that, during the subsequent, PTCs you can just set the thing to that mark.
16, go Omni Bravo and we'll take over switching it for you. [Pause.]
You've got Omni Bravo.
Roger; thank you.
Hey, Don.
Go. [Pause.]
Go ahead, Ken.
You would really love this sight. We're - as we rotate around now, we've got the - the Earth out the window Number 1, and it's about - oh, almost - not quite down to half. And you can see India and the continent, and it's covered with clouds, and no photograph can ever describe the way it looks. It's really super.
It really sounds fantastic. Wish I were there.
Yes, sir. You would love it.
You can see all of Australia, too. It's really something else.
About what size does the Earth look from where you are? [Long pause.]
Looks like it's about - it's approximately 4000 miles in radius.
Hey, that's a pretty good estimate.
No, it's - it didn't quite fill the window. Well, I'm not - I'm about - I'm about three - my eyes are about three feet from the window, and it didn't quite fill it.
Rog. [Pause.]
You know, a sight like that goes a long ways to make tomato soup taste good.
Yeah, that's what I've heard. [Long pause.]
I hate - Don, I hate to belabor the point, but I would appreciate it if the guys that are working on the RCS budgeting and all could take a look and - and see if they could determine if there was any place where we were going over more than what they might have expected for that phase.
Okay; we'll have them take a look. [Long pause.]
Okay, Ken; for your info, they said you were slightly ahead following LM extraction and apparently we used a little excess during the P23s.
Okay; that - that - that stands to reason; that not being able to see the reticle on there is a real nuisance. You can do it, and it's - I guess there is also a certain amount of getting used to the knack of flying that thing around. It's - for some reason, it seems a little bit different to find the attitude than it was in the simulator; but the biggest nuisance was the inability to see the reticle, but if that's where we used our extra, that's fine.
Okay.
And, 16, I've got P37 block data for about four different times for you when you're ready to copy. [Long pause.]
Okay; we'll get it in a few minutes.
Rog.
16, Houston. We're standing by on this P37 block data PAD anytime you're ready.
Hello, Don. You still there? [Pause.]
Hello, 16; Houston.
Ah, it's a new face.
Roger. We just changed over down here. How're things going?
Ah, this is really a ball, Henry. [Pause.] Hey - much as I hate to say it, this PTC doesn't look so red hot to us. Can you give us any clues whether it's gonna hack it or not?
Okay. Stand by. [Long pause.]
16, Houston. We don't see anything down here that's causing it divert - to diverge, but it does look marginal. We're gonna keep an eye on it. [Pause.]
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 16. Over.
Apollo 16, Houston. Go ahead. [Long pause.]
Apollo 16, Houston. Go ahead. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 16; over.
Apollo 16, Houston; go ahead.
Roger. We just cycled the H2 fans as per presleep checklist. And Fan number 3 was still in Auto. Do you want to leave it in Auto tonight? Over.
That is affirmative. Leave it in Auto.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Apollo 16, Houston. The block data - P37 block data for the updates book whenever you're ready.
Oh, yeah; wait one.
Okay, Hank; go ahead.
Okay, that's four - four blocks. I'll just read them in succession: 025:00, 4907, minus 165, 070:45; 035:00, 7454, minus 165, 070:13; 045:00, 5857, minus 165, 094:31; 055:00, 4879, minus 165, 118:41 and these all assume no Mid-Course 2. [Pause.]
Roger. 025:00, 4907, minus 165, 070:45, 035:00, 7454, minus 165, 070:13; 045:00, 5857, minus 165, 094:31, 055:00, 4879, minus 165, 118:45.
Roger. That last number was 11841. [Pause.]
Okay; 11841. [Long pause.]
Apollo 16, Houston. We want to still keep working on this SPS gauging problem. We'd like to get a readout if we could on your SPS fuel and oxidizer pressures. [Pause.]
Okay, stand by. [Long pause.]
Okay, that fuel pressure is reading right now 168. Oxidizer pressure is in the green, and it's reading 1 - 186 or 87.
Roger. Understand, 168 and 186. [Pause.]
That's affirm, isn't it? And we were told this morning before launch that that was nominal.
Roger.
Because - because of a bias in the gauge. So we're probably gonna need some kind of a - another Delta-P figure to go on our LOI card - I mean our midcourse card.
That's affirmative, and it's in work.
Yes, sir. [Pause.]
And I think I show we have just at 15 percent waste water, but we are gonna go ahead and chlorinate unless you think the EECOMs don't want that. [Pause.]
Stand by, Ken. [Long pause.]
16, Houston. We're - we're not sure we understand your question here. If you're asking if it's okay to chlorinate the potable, that's - that's good.
Okay. Just wanted to make sure if you ever need a waterboiler, people don't like to put the chlorine in there, so I just thought I'd check with you before I did it. [Pause.]
Okay, I copy now. [Pause.] They say still press ahead, Ken.
Okay, Houston. We'll run the cabin pressure up to 5.7 as per this presleep checklist.
Roger. Copy. [Long pause.]
16, Houston. When you changed the lithium hydroxide canister, we noted a small drop in the suit compressor Delta-P down here. Did you change any of the configuration in the suit loop at the time you did that? [Pause.]
Well, Henry, sometime back there during the day, I opened up the flow line to my hoses that had been turned off and laid them around to try and get some better ventilation in here. But I don't remember whether that was about the same time or not.
Okay. We're not concerned; we're just trying to answer the question. That's probably what it was.
Thank you, folks. Ready for a Verb 74?
Stand by.
Okay. We're ready, Ken.
Zap.
Apollo 16, Houston. We're showing your cabin pressure up around 5.9. Recheck your O2 flow.
Rog. It's off.
Houston, 16. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger. We gonna turn the voice off - per the presleep checklist. Okay?
Will you stand by just a minute, 16? [Pause.]
16, Houston. Do you have your O2 heaters configured? [Pause.]
That's affirm; 1 and 2 is Off, 3 is in Auto, and the [pause] H2 Heaters are both in Auto.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Apollo 16, Houston. This is for Ken. Do you have anything to report on your film status? [Pause.]
That's in work, Henry.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Gee, Henry, on 16-millimeter magazine Alpha Alpha, we have approximately 20 percent remaining. [Pause.]
Copy. [Long pause.]
On magazine November November, that's a 70 millimeter, we're up to frame 33. [Pause.]
Okay. [Long pause.]
And on Oscar Oscar, it's frame 18. [Pause.]
Roger, 18. [Long pause.]
And, Henry, we are going without (garble) what do you think about PTC?
Roger. The - your first part of your transmission was blocked out. We had a antenna switch. However, on the PTC, guess he thinks it will go throughout the sleep period, and then we'll reinitialize after you wake up. But he doesn't think it'll go a full 16 hours, but it's good for the sleep period. [Pause.]
Okay. The first thing you said was we'll go without the tone booster. We'll go with normal comm delay.
Okay.
That's for caution and warning part. [Long pause.]
And, Ken, did you use anything out of mag Juliet Juliet?
That's negative.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, Henry. Are there any onboard read-outs that you folks would like to have?
Negative, Ken, I think we're all in good shape here. Everything looks good at this point. You got anything else for us? [Pause.]
No, I'm just looking ahead, and I've got five and a half minutes to go to sleep.
Rog. Why don't you take that? Y'all did a real good day's work. Only two things left to do are those two comm switches, the Squelch and the Normal Mode Voice. Get a good night's sleep, and we'll see you tomorrow. [Pause.]
Yes, sir. This is - this doesn't come under work category.
