You got the tracking light on?
Yeah.
I tell you, the spotlight isn't nearly as good as earthshine. I'm really surprised.
We got a tracking light on, Ken.
Yeah, I know. I'm - I'm using that turned it over.
You're closing at - at 500 - at 2 feet a second, 520 feet.
Okay.
Spotlight is probably good for 300 feet on in, Ken.
That sounds like a good number. I can tell that you're out there. I can three hours.
Okay; you're at 510 feet, 2 feet a second.
Okay. I'm really amazed how when you get range all the way in there. I'm at point - Well, I'm down to 0.09 now.
Okay.
Oscillating between 1 and 0.09.
Okay. Verb 40 should be - You're at 480 feet now, Ken.
All right, sir.
You're going to station-keep, right?
Yeah, I thought I'd come in to where I can guarantee a good spotlight.
Okay.
Then you can - I'd like to get a little closer before you power down the radar.
Okay.
Hello. Maybe this is where we ought to stop to keep from burning it out. What do you think?
Ken, I don't know. If - if you want to get closer right now, I don't care. I think that - I would like for you to be in good station-keep position and be sure what you're doing, and then we'll just go on around. Okay? Kind of dark out there.
We can still see your probe.
Yeah, I hope that's still there. We've got enough problems without that. Actually, the RCS doesn't look as bad as I thought it would.
You better again.
Say again?
again.
Okay, Ken. You're at 370 feet, 360 - 370 feet at - still at 2.
Okay. It'll be daylight by the time we get there, won't it?
Probably. Have you got me good enough to where I can shut off the radar?
Yes, sir.
Thank you.
What me to - want to slow it down?
Yeah. Okay; you're - we still showed you with 2 feet a second. You still got it, man.
Okay.
We see you getting a hair bigger.
Okay; I pulled off one foot.
Okay.
Okay; you can pull the breakers.
If I knew where they were, there'd be no need to sweat it.
Want me to turn those lights on?
I thought I'd leave the tracking light on. Ken, do you need the tracking light?
Well, you can turn it off and let's see.
It's off.
Nope, don't need it.
Okay. 101:15.
Boy, that landing site and that North and South Ray are really something, Ken.
That sure is. I got a good look at them a couple of times.
It looks just like the LMA.
Sure looks different than it did yesterday.
Yeah.
Guess we better track. On the ground.
Boy howdy. That.
Yeah.
Phew! There's no cooling on this thing at all.
Sure looks like a jack-o'-lantern.
Oh, me! Give me some water, Charlie. I'm really about to erp.
Okay, just a minute.
Well, you're in Suit Disconnect. That's why.
Huh?
You're in Suit Disconnect.
Oh, no kidding?
Yeah.
What a. Okay, you can shut that water off.
Okay.
Well, you're holding like a rock out there, Ken. Not using any thrusters, are you?
Beg your pardon?
Huh?
I'm sorry. I didn't understand you.
Not using any thrusters, are you?
Yeah, I think so. Bound to be some for attitude control.
Oh.
What are you looking at, Charlie?
The RCS.
How you like the propellant position?
I just How about turning your?
over here.
Okay, little gadget I think 101:22:36.
I think you got pretty bad.
Is that what?
Yeah.
cut in here. Seems like it on the gimbal??
Boy, Ken. You got me there.
Did you understand?
I don't have any idea.
Hey, if y'all will turn the Voice/Ranging off, maybe we can get better comm.
Okay.
It's off. How do you read?
Loud and clear. I got a - a squeal with you. But I got you good and - good and clear.
Ken, how do you read now?
You still got a real bad squeal.
Ken, over.
Loud and clear.
Okay, Ken, we have Voice/Ranging back on. How do you read?
Well, it's a little scratchy, but clear.
Charlie, we must not be doing anything right.
Ken, how do you read?
Loud and clear.
Okay, Ken. How do you read VHF B?
Loud and clear.
Okay, Ken. How do you read?
Loud and clear. How me?
Okay, if you read, I'm transmitting -
Okay; are you getting - getting me now?
How do you read, Ken?
Loud and clear. How me?
Okay; you're still a little garbled but okay. What are you transmitting?
I'm transmitting on B and receiving on A.
Okay. Why don't we try - I think it's our B Receiver. Why don't you try B Duplex? Transmit B - correction, transmit A and receive B.
Well - Okay, just a second. Let's go to something simplex. That worked real nice.
Okay, B Simplex.
Okay. B Simplex.
How you read B Simplex?
Loud and clear. How me?
Still the same. You sound - you're a little garbled is all, but you're okay.
Okay; you sound good.
Okay. I think it's our B Receiver.
Well, why don't we use A Simplex then?
Tag back here in 30 seconds.
Say again?
A Simplex is no good. Tag back B Simplex in 30 seconds.
Okay.
VHF A, Ken?
Loud and clear.
That's the best one. It - it's our B Receiver is a little scratchy.
Ken, this in plane may be mighty bad if the Sun comes up and hits you in the eyes. I don't know which way you're pointed.
I don't either.
Find out right quick.
Yeah. Well, if it is field of view.
Yeah, I'm pointing...
It ought to - I think you're the one that's going to be looking into the Sun, because we're in - in an inertial attitude and I was looking at the Sun at sunset. I think the Sun's going to rise over my back.
That'll be fine. I don't care.
I'm glad to hear that because there's really not much that I can do about it.
Yeah, I knew that there wasn't. You know, if we do PDI from now, it will be a miracle.
I'm afraid you're right. And here comes the Sun. Man, are you bright.
Well, Ken, at least our urine dump works.
(Laughter) Well, I guess you have to have something to do. Have to get down and get that water in a few minutes. I thought about that on the last pass, and I thought I had - had more than enough time to get it squared away.
Well, we don't see you venting anything.
I'm not. Had a problem. Afraid I'm gonna - gonna pop that relief valve if they don't.
Okay; well, are you - No. Hey, Ken, if you - you're in great shape. Why don't you go get it, and we'll - watch it.
Let's wait until we get - get daylight on the whole spacecraft.
Oh, we ain't got day - I got daylight on you.
You have? Okay. That's a beautiful sight. All right, I'm going to go down and turn the dump on, and if it looks like it's going to obscure our vision, then I'll - holler and I'll turn it off right away.
We'll do it.
Bring that out of there! I can see why that's propulsive.
Okay; I'm back at the capsule to visual.
Okeydokey.
Man, we must be over the Sea of Rain.
Ken, you ought to see that dust squirt out of there.
I can see it going past you.
I got a good picture of that.
That's good. Somebody will get something out of all this.
Looks like you're translating your spacecraft.
Yeah, I've picked up quite a drift here.
Man, that's a long wench coming over the cold north.
You guys have another dump going?
No. This thing just catches this in a can down there, Ken.
Oh. There was still something. Maybe it's just - my stuff was bouncing off of you.
Hey, there's an icicle hanging off that dump.
That right?
Is you about to go ahead and terminate?
I beg your pardon?
(Vox) popped your dump valve, there.
Did you say something about terminating?
(Vox)nate your dump?
If you want me to. Like I'm down to 50 percent.
It's ice, I guess.
That little door down there that's open, is that the solar door?
Well, the solar door should be down off my left foot. Yeah, underneath the terminal lines of the urine dump - the water dump, rather. Can you see it from there?
Sure can.
How about that.
If you'd like to yaw around and get the Sun out of your eyes - you can do that.
We're in great shape. It's not in our eyes, Ken.
Oh, okay.
Ken, your SIM bay is all retracted.
Okay; how about taking a look at that mass spec. You - you know where that one is. That's the one in the - all the way in the aft shell, and it's the one towards the plus-Y axis.
Cover's silver, right?
Beg your pardon? The cover over it is white. The silver cover goes over the gamma ray.
Okay; it's all - everything's in, and all the covers are closed.
Okay. That's interesting.
Following us?
Yeah, he's drifting some.
Yeah, I was trying to see what this dump did. Looks like it started out giving me Delta-V and then it looked like it quit. Or at least it changed. It could be that it - if it's forming icicles out there, that it's deflecting us up.
That big chicken's been over on this side again, Ken.
Yeah. That sure is a fascinating place down there. good-size chicken, though.
You said it was - once you tried it with the - in Accel Command with the 204. Did that have - It said it looked like it was stable but oscillating. What does that mean?
Well, it meant that it was pointing about plus or minus one degree. But it seemed to be pointing at one degree about the desired axis.
We got you about ten minutes on the dump, Ken.
Okay; I'm down to 40 percent. I got my timer running here.
One for you, too. You know every crater - every one over here shows those lineations, like on 15.
Yeah, I was noticing that. Everywhere I looked, I saw that. In the craters, in the highlands, in the - just the whole surface of the Moon is covered that way. I was about to decide it was an optical illusion, but the last time I came across Theophilus down low, it turned out that those lineations follow the depressions that touch the craters that are along the rim. Where - where there was a crater on the rim, you see these - these little lineations curve around it. They take the same pattern, like there is really a whole bunch of - of fractures there.
Yeah.
But you're right. They're everywhere. I haven't seen any place, except there's a couple of places around Descartes that looked to me like they didn't have it.
All right. Let's see, if we delay - I bet one of the constraints may even be the Sun angle for me. Just trying to think - looking back at - at how much effect that Sun angle had between looking at that landmark last night and looking at it this morning. Last night you couldn't tell North and South Ray. You could tell that the craters were there, but you couldn't see any rays. And this morning, the rays were very obvious.
I think the constraint to landing is you.
Well, I'm thinking that, if we get a - if we get a workaround, which right now, I'm fresh out of ideas. But they've given me clever ideas before.
Yeah. Let me say I didn't mean that "you" literally.
I understand. (Laughter) You don't - well, I guess you do feel worse than I do, but not a lot.
It'd be better. You'd get shadows and - and then the shadow of the LM when it comes down, in case this landing radar does its thing again.
If we do go, it'll probably be - probably just a two-EVA sequence.
Yeah. Yeah, it seems like the only hope is to get back on the time line and pick it up with the nominal numbers.
Yeah, I don't think we can get a - have the consumables to stay for three EVAs.
Not after all this, I don't think. Might not even be a one-EVA, or a one-EVA is about all, I guess.
Well, unless - Your battery power may be down? I bet you could get two. Well, there's no sense in speculating. The numbers will come out of the computer. Man, that of yours sure is looking clean.
Okay; down to eight percent.
Okay; I'm going to go down and shut it off.
Okay.
Okay; it's off, so it ought to tail off pretty quickly. It'll be.
Okay, we're looking at it now, Ken. It's still spitting out quite a few particles.
Yeah. On this side, it looks to me like the particles have changed nature, though. They look like snowflakes now, when they looked like rain before.
That's true.
And they don't have the appearance of having the same velocity, but I'm not sure about that.
No, they don't have the same velocity. They just sort of sublimating out of there. The other ones were coming out like a rifle shot.
What time do you have AOS on the Flight Plan, Ken?
Well, the schedule numbers all went out the window.
You got the dooby abort? Anybody?
Do I have any more what?
(Vox) body. Our first CSM active rendezvous, too.
Okay, Charlie, we're at 138 now, so at 155 before we pick up AOS and - Well, no, it should be about 145 at this altitude. That's - that's - it looks like we ought to get it pretty soon.
Looks like all those little particles there, they're coming out and slowing it down. They look like they're just sort of stopping out there.
Okay; it's almost stopped, Ken.
The thing I haven't figured out is that the particles also look like they're coming out slower.
Every now and then you get a blizzard. It looks just like you're really drowning in.
Okay; rough calculation says we should pick up AOS about 102:02.
What's your best guess for P21, say, Ken?
Where we are right now. We're about 125 degrees, probably about 30 miles high.
I don't care. Just wondering when we was going to get acquisition.
I'd say about 102:02, I think.
Okay.
That's about 100 degrees east and gonna be about 25 miles high. I got that out of our spiffy - spiffy little P29. He's doing longitude now. Get that. That wasn't a bad guess. We're now at a 121 and 33 miles high.
Ken, the way that figure looks, we're down to one gimbal motor in yaw then, huh?
Well, that's right unless they can find something.
Well, there's not much that they can find on the ground to fix it, though.
Well, they may find some crude control mode that you could use in here that would make it oscillatory but not unstable. It's the divergence it's tracking. If it had been just the we got to go ahead and burn; then we go the Moon.
I tell you, that thing is really threatening to whip around to the back end. Think it'd just be like that.
They've got the data from one that you'd let it do that on a little?
Yeah, I showed it to them on two separate occasions on that last pass. Both times, they had high gain all the way. So there should be no question about it.
I just really didn't follow their comment about what they were trying to duplicate conditions on the simulator.
Well, they want to make - make it unstable and see if somebody can fly it. Would you believe?
Hey, Ken. If they let us go, boy, I'll tell you, if you ask me, you ought to just forget about that MEP - EMP thing, and just leave the gimbal motors on those six minutes.
Well, I really don't really know if that had anything to do with it or not. It - it would seem that, with this being our first gimbal problem and that's the first time we've done that, that would seem like a reasonable thing to suspect. But if that's what they suspect, then - then the next answer is pull the plug.
First answer's what - second answer's what?
We got AOS. Let's wait.
Orion, this is Houston.
Hello, Houston.
Roger. I have some switches and circuit breakers we want you to take care of to try to improve the comm situation. I'll give them to you as soon as you're ready to copy.
Go ahead.
Okay, we want on Panel 12, Track Mode switch, Off; on Panel 16, Primary Transmitter/Receiver Circuit Breaker, Open; S-Band Antenna Heater Circuit Breaker, Open; S-Band Antenna Comm Circuit Breaker, Open; and Primary S-Band Power Amplifier, Open. Then on panel 11, AC Bus S-Band Antenna, Open. Over.
Okay. Turn off the Track Mode on 12 - Track Mode, Off. Is that right, Jim?
That's right, Track Mode switch, Off, on Panel 12.
Okay, you'll have to find another name for that switch. Oh, okay, we got it.
It's been a long day. And did you copy those circuit breakers, Charlie?
Yeah, he's got them; we're getting them now.
Okay, and you do have a Go for another try here at PDI on Rev 16. And I have some words on that problem with the TVC whenever y'all are ready to copy.
Well, I'm all ears, I don't know about Ken.
Go to it.
Okay, Orion can always tell Casper what his problem is, but it looks like an open circuit in the rate feedback and your servo loop. We've run exhaustive tests down here on the West Coast and East Coast on controllability aspects and structural aspects, and everything looks satisfactory. On Apollo 9, we ran - a similar test was run, as you probably remember. And if such a - such a problem did occur up there, you could expect oscillations, of course, with the gimbal, but you could expect a steady attitude. It would be a limit cycle. So we're convinced down here that we have a satisfactory control mode if we have to revert to that one. Over.
Understand.
And I hope Casper copied.
Okay, Jim, one thing...
Okay, Casper copied that. I - I guess I'd like to know, is that thing going to diverge up to a point and then cease to diverge? Does it become neutrally stable at some - some amplitude, Jim?
That's affirmative, Ken.
Okay, that must be some number bigger than the one I looked at, and the other question - only other question I had is, are there any connection between this, in your mind, and the - and the longer duration gimbal On times?
Okay, the answer to that, Ken, is negative.
Okay, sounds good. Thank you.
Jim, could you go through that switch list one more time - CB list one more time a little bit slower?
Okay, Charlie. On that circuit breaker list, on panel 16, it was Primary Transmitter and Receiver, S-Band Antenna Heater, S-Band Antenna Comm, Primary S-Band Power Amp. And then on panel 11, it was just one, AC Bus S-Band Antenna. Over.
Okay. We got them all.
Okay, understand that's complete.
That is complete. Roger.
Okay. Let me give you some words on the general plan here in this rev. We want to get the PADs up to you, then we'll uplink, and then we want you to do a P52 Option 1. And then you'll pick up in the Timeline Book at circ.
Roger; copy.
And some more information, if you'd like to copy it; I have sunset at 102:35:50 and perform a 400 plus 3 after the P52. And for the P52 use the same stars as the P52 in the Timeline Book. And, of course, after the uplinks to you - Verb 47. Over.
Rog. We copy all of that. One thing - you want us to do Option 3 before the Option 1?
Negative; just the Option 1.
Okay.
Okay, we're ready to copy.
Okay. We're standing by for the PADs.
And...
Orion, will you turn S-Band Ranging switch Off?
Ranging is Off.
Let's go Hi Bit Rate.
You are Hi Bit Rate. Is Casper going to get a little Sep maneuver here?
Yes, we'll be giving that, and I have T2, T3 aborts - PADs, if you're ready to copy, Charlie.
Stand by. Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. Lima, 104:42:16.64; 111:03:30.00; T2 at PDI plus 24 plus 54; and then T3, Nectar, 106:25:11.81. Over.
Rog. Say Lima and Mike again.
Okay. Lima is 104:42:16.64. Over.
Copy that. Also Mike.
Okay. Mike is 111:03:30.00. Over.
Okay. Copy. T2 would be PDI plus 24:54. And we have Lima, 104:42:16.64; 111:03:30.00; November, 106:25:17.81. Over.
Roger; on November there, it's - the seconds, 11.81. Over.
Copy, 11.
And I have the PDI PAD when you're ready.
Go ahead.
Okay, here's India first. 104:17:23.29; 11:04 plus 0003.6; 002, 114, 340; plus 56980. Juliet 107:05:45.00. Kilo, 109:04:30.00. Over.
Copy PDI PAD. 104:17:23.29; 11:00 plus 0003.6; 002, 114, 340; plus 56980, 107:05:45.00; 109:04:30.00. Over.
Roger. And now I have the No PDI Plus 12. Orion, we've turned the biomed off.
Okay, go ahead. Okay, you got the old biomed off.
Okay. And here's No PDI Plus 12. 104:30: all zeros; plus 0102.3; plus all zeros; minus 0050.0; 0138.4, plus 0011.4, 0113.9; 0:35; all zeros, 271; 0870.0; plus 0102.6, all zeros; minus 0049.4; 105, 18, all zeros; 107, 05, 45.00. Throttle profile 10 percent for 26 seconds. Full throttle for remainder. Over.
Roger; copy. Give me the Noun 42s again. Over.
Roger. Noun 42. 0138.4, plus 0011.4, 0113.9. Over.
Roger. Copy 104:30:00.00; plus 0102.3; plus all balls; minus 0050.0; 0138.4, plus 0011.4, 0113.9; 0:35; 000, 271; 0870.0; plus 0102.6, plus all balls, minus 0049.4; 105, 18, 00.00; 107, 05, 45.00. Over.
Good readback, Charlie. I have AGS abort constants when you're ready.
Stand by. Okay, I'm ready to copy.
Okay, Orion. We're going to hold up. We've got to get some high bit rate. Orion, select Downvoice Backup.
Houston, how do you read Downvoice Backup? Over.
Orion, this is Houston. I read you very, very weak. We want you to go to P00 and Data. We're gonna send you some uplinks, And we do not want you to transmit until the uplinks are complete.
Understand. We have P00 and Data.
Orion, we want you to go to Downvoice Backup.
Roger. You have Downvoice Backup.
Orion, this is Houston with the new Sep PAD and Circ PAD whenever you're ready.
Okay, Jim. We're still getting the uplink.
Okay, no transmissions here.
You guys should maintain radio silence up there.
Okay, Orion. We have the uplinks in, and I'm ready to give you the AGS abort constants.
Okay, stand by. Go ahead.
Okay, beginning with 224 plus 60529, plus 29402, plus 60406, plus 00572, minus 32664, minus 54401. And we want you to reload 373 with plus 08574. Change 254 to plus 08817. Over.
Okay, Jim. We copy starting with 224, 60529, 29402, 60406, 00572, 32664, 54401. Load 373 with plus 08574; 254 plus 08817. Over.
That's a good readback, and, of course, 662 and 673 are minus.
That's affirmative.
Okay, and I have the Sep PAD and Circ PAD if you're ready.
Go ahead.
Okay, Sep PAD is at 102.30, all zeros. And on this Circ PAD; ignition 103:21:42.43, Noun 81s; plus 0069.1, plus all zeros, minus 0043.5. Over.
Okay. Hopefully, that's a Sep PAD. Ken got 103:21:43; plus 0006.9 - correction, plus 0069.1, minus all balls, minus 0043.5. Over.
Roger. That's the - the Circ PAD. The other - the first one was the Sep PAD.
Okay, just the TIG. Okay, we're gonna get to work - start loading these AGS stuff.
Okay, and after you load those AGS abort constants, you'll be clean to pick up on the Timeline Book at the Circ burn.
Roger. After the P52.
Ask them for a new DAP load or new DAP weight - it doesn't make any difference.
Why don't - why don't you do that, John, while I...
Okay.
I think we're all right, but I got to load this stuff.
Houston, do we have a new LM DAP weight?
Stand by.
Or is that worth fooling with?
when we pitch up like this, I feel like I'm going backwards - in an orb or in an inertial pull.
Kind of got your.
Orion, this is Houston. We'd like you to open AC Bus A Tape Recorder on Panel 11.
Okay. It's coming open.
And I have a PIPA bias for you...
Okay, it's open.
when you're ready to copy.
Stand by. Whew. Go ahead.
Okay. Address 1456. Data, 03141. Over.
Okay, 1456. Say again the data.
03141. Over.
Rog; 1456 address, 03141.
Good readback.
We're entering that now. Verb 21 Noun 0 - Noun 01 Enter, 1456 Enter, load 0314 - 03141.
Good number, I guess, huh?.
Orion, this is Houston. We'd like you to open the Up Data Link circuit breaker on panel 11 and go to Normal voice configuration.
Rog. Data Link.
Okay, Houston; Orion. How do you read Normal voice? Over.
Very good. Much better, Charlie.
Okay.
Okay. Can you say something about our trajectory now? Are we still 17,000 feet south and the same as before?
Stand by, John. We'll have some words for you.
Okay.
And I assume you want to use both systems for PDI, both RCSs.
We're still talking about that down here, John.
Okay.
Orion, this is Houston. At the present time, it looks like you'll be coming in 16,000 feet high and about 20,000 feet 6,000 south,
Okay, understand. 16,000 high and 20,000 south.
Roger.
Jim, John and I are just laughing. We'd like to go back to the sims, please.
So would we.
Glad you turned the biomed off.
Houston, okay to do that P52 now?
Houston, are we clear to do the P52 now?
Roger; as soon as you're in darkness, John. Well, just an, advisory, it's Option 1.
Understand. Option 1 and we're going to gyro torque it.
Roger.
Jim, we entered the P52. We've got you on the Aft omni now.
Roger. We copy.
That new REFSMMAT was pretty close to the old one - just a couple of degrees, right?
That's affirmative.
Man, when those jets turn on, Jim, nobody had ever commented before, but it really horses this old thing around.
Roger.
Okay. Orion, this is Houston. We have another procedure we wanted you to try with the comm problem.
Go ahead.
Okay, we want you to open the Secondary Power AMPs circuit breaker on Panel 11. And, of course, you'll lose comm when you open that; and then after one minute, close it, and then we'll re-establish comm.
Roger; copy. We'll do that after John finishes marking.
Okay.
Orion, this is Houston. How do you read?
Loud and clear.
Oh, you're loud and clear too.
Roger; could you give us the - your Noun 93s? We'd - had lost data at that point.
Yeah, sorry about that, Jim. Here they are: the star angle difference was 4 balls 1, minus 4 balls 1; our torque angles were minus 0.067, plus 0.108, plus 0.050; torqued at 104:42:25.
Roger. Copied down to Noun 93 is minus 0.067 plus, 0.108, plus 0.050. Over.
That's affirmative.
Hey Houston, I don't know where Ken is at this point when we missed up into our P52. But I trust he's still keeping an eye on us.
I hope so too.
Are you, Ken?
And, Orion; this is Houston. Just a reminder on the 400 plus 3, and a Verb 47.
Roger; we already did that.
Okay; very good.
Charlie, this is Houston. Could you put your mike a little closer? Your volume seems to be a little lower than - than John's.
Okay; how's that?
Much better.
Okay; I had one of them up. Every time I turn my head I get orange juice.
Roger.
It's delicious, Jim, but it's better in your mouth than floating around the cockpit.
I know what you mean. I wish I had some.
As a matter of fact, I've already had an orange shampoo with the helmet on.
I guess that's better than no shampoo.
Yeah, I think you're right. Jim, we were really impressed with that landing site from ten miles, anyway, it sure looks exactly like the LMA.
Okay, Charlie. We're kind of curious about the orange juice problem. Did you have a - a bag failure?
Well, I think it must be the valve. The Command Module water had a lot of air bubbles in it and when I - of course, when I put my suit on, it sort of compressed everything. And every time my mike comes by and grabs the - the valve, it bends it down just slightly, which is - which is enough to cause some to squirt out due to the pressure from the suit. Over.
We copy.
I had the same problem all the time in one g.
Yeah, at one g though, you bend over and it's on your visor and you can lick it off.
Casper, Orion transmitting VHF A Simplex. How do you read?
Charlie, this is Houston. We're kind of concerned about how much...
Casper, Orion...
orange juice might have spilled out. We're concerned about the amount that might have got in the suit loop and its effect on the LiOH canister.
Jim, most of it, for some reason floated up under my helmet - I mean my Snoopy hat, and I'm pretty sticky around the temples and all; and I don't think anything - most of it stuck right into my helmet. And the suit loop flow is not enough to drive it down under - into the suit. And I don't feel like I'm wet at all down in that area. Over.
Okay; thank you, Charlie.
Yeah, I don't - I don't think there is any of it in the suit loop to amount to anything. Looking at Charlie, I can tell where most of it is.
Yeah, Ken, I was just seeing how you read. We're all set to go for your Circ. Okay, what kind of Sep maneuver did you do? All right, thank you.
Orion, let's try Biomed, Left.
Okay, you got John's arrhythmia.
Roger.
Houston, Orion. I'd like to confirm that in System A we have enough ullage volume to get all the propellants out of the tank. Over.
That's not correct, Charlie. We'll give you the exact number here shortly.
Okay, we're still looking at 2,000 - about 2,100 psi on the helium.
Orion, this - this is Houston. In answer to your question, Charlie, if you were to lose source pressure right now, you could get 35 percent out.
Okay; we only have 50 - 50 percent remaining.
Understand. And that 35 percent is enough to complete the mission.
Okay. If we - Do we have a double failure here on the two regs and that loop?
That's affirmative.
Okay. So what's holding us is that check valve that unseats at 2 - about 225 and reseats at 212?
That's correct, Charlie. And really you have - should have about 60 percent in that system. Your gauge has an error in it.
We cop... Rog; we copy.
Houston, Orion.
Go ahead, Orion.
Roger, Jim. We watched Ken's waste water dump, and I can see why that thing really gives FIDO fits. It really comes out of there like a water hose.
Okay; we copy.
And we took a picture of it, or two, and I hope they come out and show you that. We had pretty good lighting.
Good; we hope you have some good pictures of it. And we're showing about two minutes and a half to LOS.
Rog; AOS time, please.
Stand by.
AOS for Rev 16 is 103:51:25.
Roger.
Casper, Houston. We're on two loops now.
Okay, Henry. Thank you.
Hey, Ken, I've got a couple other words about that if you'd like to listen.
I surely would, Stu.
Okay. Most of the cases where they appeared to be diverging to you and you shut it off the motor, would short, and some of them was just very close to the point at which it became stable. And on some of the - the longer ones, we did see the stability, but those that you called as diverging were short of reaching this stable point, it appears that the controllability is not going to be any problem when - If you would have to burn with this, according to the stroking tests on 9, you'll get a lot of - of oscillations and you'll feel the spacecraft shaking, but the attitude will not be changing. You'll probably see the rate needles moving around a little bit. And just for your info also, most probably do the burns with the 90 degree roll, so we'll have a - so we'll have the redundancy in the - in the yaw axis platform consideration.
That sounds like a good plan. Now, I guess if I'd have been a little smarter, we'd have pressed on on schedule.
No, I don't think so, Ken. They - they appeared to be diverging and it was a - it was a true divergence as far as you could tell. It - it was just, in most cases, just short of becoming stable.
Okay, I tell you - you know the difference in this and the simulator, where you can really feel it move, and this old dog was really wagging its tail.
Yes. You know, Jim was talking about the Apollo 9 test, and he said that - that they really - you really feel it in the spacecraft. But this thing is stable. They have - they've really checked that out, and it'll rattle and roll a little bit, if you have to use it, but it's stable.
Sounds good. Once again, the ground earns their pay.
Okay, Hank, I guess I'm in need of a general outline of where we intercept the Flight Plan. And it looks like one of the things I'll be needing is a - some kind of a separation burn from Orion again, so that I'm not setting here blasting it into his face. And then I'll need a certain burn PAD. And after that, I'll - I guess we just sort of stumble along and try to pick up some landmark tracking and things like that.
Okay...
My fuel is kind of low.
Okay, of course, as you know, we're working the Flight Plan now, and Hank's got the - the PADs for you. And I just wanted to make one other comment now. Do you have any other questions - do you have any reservations about this duty, because we sure want to get - get your concurrence? But everything looks like it's - it's go.
Okay. Did somebody fly one of these in the CMS?
Well, But...it's been flown on the hardware evaluator.
Okay, I just want to get - if anyone's...
Yeah.
run one of these things in the manual MTVC or something like that.
Okay, yeah. They - it's been flown, in all three - three modes, Ken, G&N, SCS Auto and MTVC. It's also been flown on the...
Roger.
on the hardware evaluator, and - and, of course, we did have the stroking test on Apollo 9, where it was flown in front, and pretty much duplicated this exact problem as far as cycles per second, so forth.
All right, sir. I'm happy.
Very good. And Hank's got some good words here for you here.
Okay, Ken. I have your...
Thank you very much.
Sep PAD for you. You'll use normal sep procedures. In other words, you'll be below the LM, facing it, and back away with your minus-X thrusters. I'll read you your new PAD, if you're ready to copy.
Okay, just a second. I got my PAD book handy.
Okay, I'm ready for a little Sep PAD.
Roger. Noun 33, 102:30, all zip; attitude 000, 357, 000.
Okay, this is sep. That's at 102:30:00; attitude 000, 357, and 000.
Good readback, Ken.
And this is to be a - a one-foot-per-second radial inward.
That's affirmative.
Okay.
And I have your Circ PAD for you now, Ken, if you're ready to copy.
Okay, go ahead.
Roger. Circ, SPS/G&N; 39095; plus 0.49, plus 1.19; 103:21:42.43; Noun 81, plus 0069.1, all zips, minus 0043.5; 000, 139, 358; 0068.0, plus 0053.1; 0081.6, 0:05, 0070.1. The rest is NA. Sirius and Rigel; 131, 071, 014. Two jets; 16 seconds; quads Alfa and Charlie. And in comments: manually roll 90 degrees from PAD attitude for burn, except the final attitude and trim in P40.
Okay. Let me ask one question before I read it back. I assume that I would be outsmarting myself if I went through the 90-degree roll in the Verb 49 maneuver rather than going to zero roll. I'm looking for ways to kind of be stingy with the RCS.
Stand by one.
Let me read you the PAD back now and then ask you the questions, Hank.
Okay.
Okays it's circ, SPS/G&N; 39095; plus 0.49, plus 1.19; 103:21:42.43; plus 0069.1, all zips; minus 0043.5, 000, 139, 358; 0068.0, plus 0053.1; 0081.6, 0:05, 0070.1. Sirius and Rigel; 131, 071, 014. Two jets, 16 seconds; quads Alfa and Charlie. Manually roll 90 degrees for burns.
Good readback, Ken.
And would you like for me to go to A/C Roll for the normal roll coming up to control?
Ken, there's too much noise. Can you say it again.
Would you like for me to go to A/C Roll for normal roll control also?
Stand by. That's affirmative, Ken. Go to A/C Roll.
Okay.
Ken, we're trying to work in a P52 here, and we're checking that attitude, and then we'll give you what we think is best as far as that maneuver..
Okay.
Hey, tell him not to talk now, because they're hitting the data then every time now in Downvoice Backup.
Casper, Houston. Between now and sep we're not going to do anything. In the meantime, FAO is working on a - whether the burn attitude is going to be good for your P52 or not. So just go ahead, get sep out of the way and we'll have some words for you then.
Okay, looks like I could use a new state vector, too.
Roger. They are working on the vectors now.
Okay, will it do me any good to load - Yeah, I can go ahead and load this thing and let them put in a new vector later. Is that correct?
Say again.
Is it okay to go ahead and load P30 and then out in a new vector afterwards, or is it best to wait until I get the vectors in?
Stand by a minute, Ken.
Ken, go ahead and sep. We'll up-link after sep.
Okay, thank you.
How about if I do this 90 degrees to that attitude to save - save the maneuver. I'll have to go pretty fast to get there.
I guess I didn't understand your question, Ken.
I'm almost 90 degrees to that attitude and I could do it. Instead of pointing and doing it along the X-axis, suppose I come down and do this 90 degrees out and do it with the B/D thruster? Put in that one foot per second?
Stand by, Ken.
That'd get me a - a pitch attitude of 085 - or 087, excuse me.
Okay. Now, he loaded - he loaded his P30 and you're looking at...
Stu, you were on air to ground. I've loaded P30, and I have flown to 90 degrees from the attitude in order to save that extra high-speed maneuver to get there. And I'm going to burn it along the Z-axis. It'll be towards the Moon, which is our check, and I'll take it from 1 foot per second to 2 foot per second as per the normal procedures, except I'll be using the Z-translation.
Okay, Ken. We concur as long as it's 1-foot down radial.
Okay, it'll be 1 foot towards the Moon, and we'll still count from 1 to 2 foot per second on the Noun 85.
Roger.
Casper, you a Go for sep.
Okay; go for sep. Thank you, sir.
Just to clarify, Ken. You're going to burn the Noun 85 to zero.
Negative; the Noun 85 will go to plus 2. It was loaded so that it would point you in the other direction, and by taking it this way, I'll - the dummy load we put in was a - a minus, and we normally burned it to a plus 2. I'm going to burn towards the Moon, which is going to make this come out to be plus 2.
We originally put in a vector. We wanted to burn radially inward, and we put in a vector that was - would cause you to point radially outward on the calculations and then we just burned it to a larger number. So P40 wouldn't - wouldn't cause you to turn around and point 180 from where you were when you undock.
Roger; copy.
Do you have any reservations?
Long as you get a foot toward the Moon.
Okay. We can do that.
Okay. Inside of 30 seconds.
Okay; how's that?
Looks okay, Ken.
Casper, Houston. If you'll give us Accept, we'll up-link.
You have it.
And, Casper, when you get through with the up-links I we want to go to an attitude of 000, 060, 000 and do a P52.
Okay, 000, 060, and 000 and a P52, option 3. And I take it that I should enter 509 just before the P52, and leave it in until after the gimbal drive check in P40. The same procedure we had last time. Is that affirmative?
That's affirmative.
All righty.
Casper, the computers are yours.
Thank you.
Casper, Houston. We're trying to troubleshoot the LM communications problems and it will help if you go to omni Alfa.
Casper, we have a Noun 93.
Okay.
And, Ken, what we would like for you to do is pick up in the Flight Plan at 97:07, and with the circ preps, and just step on through that, procedure-wise, and be sure you do the Verb 49 after the circ. I have a change in your PAD attitude...
You said Verb 29, what first to take?
Roger. Right after the circ burn, want to be sure you do the Verb 49. And, to get it into the landmark tracking attitude, we're going to do the high-altitude landmark tracking. And we've got a change to your PAD attitude for your circ. We're going to go ahead and give you an attitude that has the 90 degrees in it, so the Verb 49 will be more efficient. And the new attitude is 090, 139, 358.
Okay; 090, 139, and 358. I'm on my way now. And I'll get myself into the proper tracking attitude if we don't get all those things worked out.
Roger. And we want to make sure you don't bypass the final trim in P40, in that attitude.
That's affirmative. I will take the final trim.
Roger. And somewhere in here I need to give you the new abort PADs, whenever you can get the chance to copy them.
Okay. Let me get the maneuvers started, and let me get myself squared away and get the time line in my head and then I'll give you a call.
Okay; whenever you're ready.
Okay, Hank; and one question that comes to my mind is, do you want the secondary yaw gimbal brought on the line or not?
Stand by, Ken. I'll get you an answer on that one.
Okay, Ken, what we'd like for you to do is leave the secondary gimbal motors off until you have finished the gimbal drive check, then bring the secondary gimbal motors on, and do a normal burn. And if you have to, go ahead and down grade, down mode, if you have to to arrest some kind of a bad rate or something.
Okay. I'll not do - I'll do the gimbal drive check with the secondary in pitch - unless - Are they in the same package? It seems like they're in separate packages. The secondary in yaw is the one I'll bring on after the gimbal drive check.
That's okay, Ken.
Or would you rather just not exercise it. It's macht's nicht to me.
It's your druthers, Ken. If you want to do it that way, that's fine.
Okay. It'll just verify that I've got everything else hooked up properly. I'd like to keep as close to the normal procedures as I can. Hey, you did copy the P52 things?
Roger. It looked good. And Orion's trying to call you on VHF.
Okay, I had turned them off while we were doing our chatter. Let me get to them.
Orion, Casper.
Orion, did you call Casper?
Okay. We'll give it a try again, I did a 1-foot-per-second radial in towards the Moon.
And, Ken; in addition to the PADs, I also have you LOS and AOS time.
Okay.
Casper, Houston. How do you read?
Loud and clear.
Okay, we lost you there a minute.
Okay. Do you want another omni?
Stand by.
Casper, Houston. We're about 9 minutes from LOS, and I sure would like to get these PADs up when I ever - you get a chance.
Okay. Can I catch them when we get AOS, Hank? These are all the abort PADs, right.
Okay. And - but let me give you the LOS and AOS.
Okay; go ahead.
Roger. LOS is 103:04:54; AOS, 103:51:25. Are you interested in sunrise?
No, sir. That's all right, thank you. Yeah, let me concentrate on making sure that it all goes well in time, Hank. And I'll pick up those abort PADs at AOS.
Roger.
Omni Delta, 16, or Casper.
And, Houston; Casper.
Go ahead.
One thing on the plus side, Hanks, is Charlie took a look at the mass spec and says that it's all inside and buttoned up.
He said the mass spec is all inside and buttoned up?
Yes, sir.
Okay. I'll relay that.
Okay, and I took the trim maneuver in P40 and I put that bias to Attitude B, 90 degrees roll, 139 pitch, and 1.7 in yaw, and that's about right, considering the roll.
Roger.
Casper, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. You have a Go for circ, and when you come up on - at AOS next time we'd like you to come up in the landmark tracking attitude that is giving us 98.22. That's a little different from the Verb 49 maneuver that's called out right after the circ burn. It's different in roll. In fact, you should be in attitude 000, 276, 000. And we want you to do your Verb 49 to that attitude: 000, 276, 000, rather than a roll of 060 as it calls for there right after the circ burn.
What time did they say AOS was, Ken?
Well, the reason I ask, Ken, is, for this P52, I need to be close to the right attitude to pick up your story.
My eight-ball in normal.
Oh, let's try it and see what happens.
Okay. I'll pick you up on the best antenna.
Roger. Omni D, Omni Delta.
Okay, thank you, Hank.
Ken, we'd like to know if you did a purge when you did the waste water dump.
A purge? A fuel cell purge? No, sir.
Okay, copy. You didn't purge fuel cells.
No, that's correct.
Ken, if you can work it in, don't jeopardize the burn. Maybe after the burn you can get a urine dump and purge on all those things so we can get the SIM bay going later. That's okay, but if you can't work it in, don't - don't jeopardize anything
Okay, I'll get you a purge in there, anyhow.
Okay. Caution/Warning's back to Normal. TVC Servo Power Number 1 and Number 2 are on. RHC is to AC. Direct is Off. The BMAGs are uncaged. I'm in SCS.
Mark it. Seven minutes, the gimbals are coming on. One, Pitch; one, Yaw. Pitch looks good, trimmed at 1.5. Yaw looks good, trimmed at 1.2. MTVC; good in pitch; it's good in yaw. Turn the THC control. Goes back to zero. No MTVC. Going clockwise. No MTVC. Secondary Gimbal; Pitch 1. MTVC is good. Thumbwheels are good. Back to neutral. AC/DC; Main A, Main B. BMAGs are caged.
Gimbal drive check; minus 2 in pitch, plus 2, minus 2 in yaw, zero. And they're trimmed. Trims are good. And P509 is coming out.
Hey, how about going Vox, Ken.
I am in Vox.
Are you reading me in Vox, Charlie?
Yeah, your Vox circuit was like a key, but it's fine.
Okay; 509 is out.
Okay. I'm strapped in. I'll turn the Vox up a little if that'll help.
It would sure be good.
Okay. And I'll try to talk to you as loud as I can and good. Burn time is 5 seconds. Two jets for 16 seconds, the ullage. Coming up on three minutes to burn. EMS is in Delta-V; the Delta-VC is set.
And I'm bringing on the Yaw Gimbal Number 2...
Mark. And that's a good sign.
Coming up on one minute. Stand by.
One minute. EMS is Normal. Translation Power is On. The Delta-V Thrust switch A is coming On -
Mark.
DSKY is blank. Average g is on.
Ullage; ullage is good.
Pro.,
Ignition.
Shutdown. Looks like a good one.
Gonna have to do some trims.
Okay; I'm gonna have to roll to get the - to trim out.
Might know this little guy would be the one that takes the Z-axis trim that you have to roll for.
Why do you got to roll, Ken? Because of jets?
Yeah.
The Gimbal Motors are Off.
You got about a 20-hour charge on those batteries, I bet you.
Yeah. Okay, let me cut this Beta. I have a residual of plus 0.2, plus 0.2, zip. Attitude - 61-
Okay, I'm going off Vox. Have a good trip.
(Vox) one, Ken.
Okay, Orion, you don't need any further data for the P56, do you?
No, we got it all, Ken. Thank you.
All right. Sorry we held you up so long.
No problem.
We're just happy to be on our way, babe. That was great. Hang in there.
I'm gonna have to buy some of those cats a couple of cases of beer when we get home.
You can bet.
Like a light to the blind.
Okay, Ken, I think we ought to go back to the Voice Ranging on the VHF. Is that what your PDI switch list called for?
Okay.
Ken, do you read? Over.
Loud and clear. How me?
Ken, do you read? Over.
Loud and clear. Did you copy him on Voice Ranging?
Houston - Ken. Over.
Yeah, I copy you now.
I went to Voice Ranging and Duplex Bravo, and I could hear you, but I couldn't receive.
(Vox) read now?
How about now; do you hear me? Okay, I'm talking to you on the A Simplex but I'm not getting through to you on the B Duplex.
Okay. You weren't getting through on B Duplex, because I was - I was - had B Receiver Off.
That'll do it.
Okay, I'm gonna go Voice Ranging and B Receiver, okay?
Okay.
You can put B to Receive over there, John?
sir.
Okay, you're a little scratchy, but okay.
All righty.
My helmet looks like my training helmet now.
Yeah.
What time do you have, John?
I've got - Well, my clock is wrong.
Ken, what time do you have, Houston time?
I got - 22 minutes of 8.
Okay, thank you.
What I haven't been able to figure out is whether it's a.m. or p.m.
p.m.
You can feel those thrusters burn.
Yeah.
Okay, 35 minutes, the Ascent Bats are coming On. They're On - at 103:42.
Okay, if we're 66,000 feet, we're probably gonna have 10 or 15 or 20 feet a second more to start with.
Yeah. Okay; Throttle Control we got. LMPs we got.
Yeah.
Rate Scale, 25 Degrees per Second?
Go.
Att/Translation, 4 Jets?
4 Jets.
Okay. Check DCS - DPS, APS, RCS. Let's go look at the DPS. Okay. APS - was okay. Okay. Okay, there we go. Press l, Press 2. Pressure's coming down. It must be cooling off. Supercrit - but that ambient's okay. Okay. Okay?
The switch guards are checked.
Okay. ECS looks good.
Bias my gages, and EPS.
Okay? The Commander's Bus, Inverter 1.
Inverter 1 is closed, Charlie.
Okay; going Descent 1.
Okay; we've still got the S-band antenna open.
That's okay. That's just the high gain; and we're not using that,
Okay.
Coming up at AOS in a moment - at six minutes.
See my - It's shedding.
It is? Yeah, I know. Uh-huh. Right out front.
I wish I had a drink of water.
I don't know what that noise is, but it really is something.
It sure is.
Man, that really is something. We don't even have VHF Ranging on. Well, we got it on, but Ken's not locked up.
That Moon is really some kind of place!
Yeah.
Okay, it's gonna be almost - by - let's see, we're six hours late and it's three degrees - about a 15-degree Sun angle, John.
Okay. Whatever that means, Charlie.
Whatever that means.
We'll be having AOS here, momentarily.
Okay, I'm AGS initialized.
Hello, Houston; 16 here.
Orion, this is Houston. How do you read?
Loud and clear, Jim.
Okay. I have a couple of comm procedures for you...
Okay. Jim, I...
on Panel 12, will you get the Function switch to Range; and on Panel 11, Updata Link circuit breaker closed.
Updata Link is closed, Function switch to Range.
Roger. And I'm standing by for your report.
And, Jim - Okay, we got the Ascent Bats On at 103:42. The ED bats are Go at 37 volts.
Roger; copy. The Ascent Bats 103:42, and ED bats are good. And I have a PDI ephem update...
And we were on Inverter 2 for a while.
Copied. You were on Inverter 2.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Okay...
Just for a little while.
India, 104:17:24.66; DEDA 231, plus 56990. Over.
Copy. 104:17:24:66; plus 56990 for 231.
Good readback.
56990.
Okay.
Do we have an up-link, Jim?
Roger. If - You have P00. If you go to Data, we'll send you some up-links
Okay. You have it, P00 and Data.
Okay. They're on their way.
And, Orion, this is Houston with a few words for you on RCS ignition.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. John, you can anticipate a slight roll transient at ignition because of c.g. position; and, on the RCS, of course, we'll want normal configuration. And your RCS quantity System A is off because of the high pressure in that system. It's off by about 13 percent.
Okay.
In other words, you have 13 percent more than indicated.
Understand.
Orion, do you have a Verb 33 on the DSKY?
That's affirmative.
Okay. Let's do an Enter on that.
We've lost high bit rate. We have one more...
Verb 33 entered.
one more up-link to send.
Okay.
Orion, will you turn the Function switch Off?
Function is Off.
Roger.
Which one, Jim?
That's the S-Band Functions.
All of them?
Oh, negative. The one - the Ranging switch.
Okay. It's going Off.
Orion, this is Houston. We want Battery 3 Off now. Roger...
Roger.
to put a little more load on the ascent bats.
Roger. Battery 3 is Off.
Roger.
Jim, could we yaw right a little bit and point that omni right at you, would that help?
Stand by.
Okay. Any words on that up-link, Jim?
Why don't you put in that yaw maneuver; yaw right 20 degrees, that might help.
Roger.
Here's yaw right 20.
Roger.
Okay. And how about reading that up to me, and I'll copy it down.
Looks like we're getting good data now, Charlie. Stand by. We're up-linking now.
Okay, Jim. I think we'll start the - John says we'll start the PDI from zero yaw since the omni's pointing right at you.
That be better for you?
Stand by.
Okay, Orion. We're finished with your computer.
Okay.
Okay, Orion. This is Houston. That zero yaw looks okay.
All right. Fine, thank you.
Can call P63, John. How do you read us Vox, Jim?
Loud and clear.
Read loud and clear on Vox. Okay?
Yes, sir, John. You're loud and clear.
Ten minutes.
Okay. Let's check the DPS configuration card. CB(11): DECA Gimbal AC - closed.
It's closed, and DECA Power's closed.
CB(16): Display/Engine Override - Logic, Closed.
SCS? Yeah, go.
Stab/Control, all Closed except the AEA.
All closed except the AEA.
Okay, 25 degrees a second.
25 degrees a second.
Throttle Control - Auto/Commander.
Auto/Commander.
Att/Translation of 4 Jets.
4 Jets. Balance Couple - On. Engine Gimbal, Enable Descent Engine Command Override, Off.
Off. Go.
Abort/Abort Stage, reset. Dead Band, Min. Attitude Control, three, to Mode Control. PGNS, AGS - Auto.
Go.
Okay.
Pro.
On Hi Mult, Landing Radar/Computer; Monitor, the PGNS. PGNS - Guidance; AGS - Mode Select. Altitude/Altitude Rate. Supercrit Pressure, 1220; Ambient Pressure's 390.
Okay.
Orion, you can configure for normal RCS configuration now.
Okay. System A is on.
Roger.
Hey, Jim. We got an RCS A Reg light when that went on. The pressures are good, though.
Roger.
Okay, John. We - The DET is set. Okay. FDAI - verified the FDAI: 011.
Have to trim it up a little bit.
Verb 40 Noun 20, please.
Got it, Charlie.
Okay.
Eight minutes.
AGS and PGNS are aligned. 410 is at the zero. 400 plus 1 going in. And the needles deflect - 433.
Amazing. How do you read, Jim?
Loud and clear.
Okay.
What happened?
Okay. We're clear down to five minutes. At five, we close the Landing Radar breaker.
Right.
Starting a little high. Based on the, it will probably be double at first (garble).
The old Earth is sure pretty.
Orion, bring Battery 3 on at - at minus five.
Roger; copy.
(Garble) pull me right up under my - little (garble).
Okay. 05:36, John. Everything looks great.
Hey, Casper. How do you read? Over.
Okay. Five minutes, Landing Radar breaker is going closed.
Bat 3 is On.
Altitude Transmitter is 3.4 almost; Velocity Transmitter is 0.82.
Say again the reading on the velocity, John.
altitude transmitter.
3.8.
Roger. Copy 3.4 and 3.8.
Correct.
Orion, you're Go for PDI.
Roger. Go for PDI.
Okay, Pro for final trim.
Pro. Looks better than it did. Go ahead. Enter.
Enter.
Go. My watch is set and wound.
It checks.
About a second off here.
Okay. Stand by for 2 minutes, John.
Roger.
Casper, Houston.
Hello, Houston. Casper did it this time.
Hey, good show, you want to give us a report?
Okay. Okay, the burn was on time and for the right duration. And the residuals were plus 0.2, plus 0.2, and 0. That was after a trim: and the attitude for those residuals was 161.38, 132.96, and 0.12. Delta-VC was minus 8.5; the oxidizer is 32; the fuel is 34; and the decrease-increase is pegged at decrease, probably because of the short duration. The burn required a trim. The original residuals were plus 1 and plus 0.6 and plus 0.7. So I had to roll in order to take out the Z-components.
Roger; and would you give us the trim attitude again, please.
Okay, I'll give you again the trim attitude, and this is for these 210 residuals. That's after trimming, that was 161.38, 132.96, and 0.12.
Roger; copy.
And, Hank, I did complete the fuel cell purge.
Roger, copy. You completed fuel cell purge. And I would like to get up a P24 PAD to you.
Standing by.
Roger. It's 16-3. T1 is 104:19:11; 104:24:01; 104:25:41; 104:26:29; north 3 nautical miles.
Okay. That's 104:19:11; 24:01; 25:41; and 26:29; north 3 miles.
Good readback, Ken. And I'd like to get a Flight Plan change to you there at 98:45 in your Flight Plan.
Go ahead.
Okay. At this point, we want to delete the Verb 49 to the 52 - the P52 attitude. We're deleting the P52; it's not required. At this time, we would like you to go to P20, option 5, plus-X SIM bay.
Okay. Following the completion of the tracking, we'll go to P20 option 5 and plus-X. I presently have EMP 509 running, and I will terminate it following the P24.
That's affirmative. And also, I have the Abort PADs for you that I didn't get up before.
Okay, go ahead.
Roger. Echo, 104:30 all zips; Foxtrot, plus 0102.3, all zips, minus 0050.0; Golf, 105:18:00.00; Hotel, 107:05:45.00; India, 104:17:23.29; Juliet, 107:05:45.00; Kilo, 109:04:30.00; Lima, 104:42:16.64; Mike, 111:03:30.00; November 106:25:11.81.
Okay, Hank. Starting with Echo, 104:30 all zips; Foxtrot, plus 0102.3, all zips; minus 0050.0; Golf, 105:18:00.00; Hotel, 107:05:45.00; India, 104:17:23.29; Juliet, 107:05:45.00; Kilo, 109:04:30.00; Lima, 104:42:16.64; Mike, 111:03:30.00; November, 106:25:11.81. Over.
That was a good readback, Ken. And Stu would like to give you some words on the rendezvous.
Okay, Ken. I got a couple of comments about - in the event of a PDI abort as far as the rendezvous scheme. And you might want a sheet of paper there to jot down a couple of things.
Okay; I got a little corner here.
Okay, we're going to do the navigation in SCS. In other words, the marking routine; and we'll use the CMC to maneuver us into the burn attitude and set us up for the tracking. We'll burn in SCS, and there are three places through here that you can activate that relay, if you're using the normal procedures. Now we've got some detailed procedures we won't read to you now. If we get in that situation, we'll talk to you a bit. But the three times that you want to watch out for are: don't place the Spacecraft Control in CMC with the Optics Mode in Manual. I think you're probably pretty familiar with that one. Don't respond to the 204 display with Spacecraft Control in CMC. And if you make a burn, you'll probably be trimming it with G&N. And wait until you've got your Verb 16, your Noun 85 display up before going back to CMC. And we can talk about it in detail, like I say, later if we need it. We've run a couple of these and they go pretty smooth.
Okay, Stu. The way I understand the scheme is that for attitude holding, while we're doing navigation, we'll do it in SCS; and when we're ready to go to work, why, we'll do CMC maneuver to the burn attitude, and we'll make the burn in SCS to avoid this relay again. Then, we don't ever want to go to CMC control with the Optics in Manual, and we don't want to respond to 204 with the CMC command. And the third one, I didn't copy.
Okay. If you do a burn in your SCS, you - depending on what you've done there, Ken, you'd probably end up with your flashing 99 display. And we want to make sure that you go on to your Noun 85 display, before you go to CMC. Then go ahead and trim the G&N residuals.
Okay, Houston. Roger, I understand. We don't want to go through that transient at the end of the P40, certainly.
Righto. And that one thing, too...
If they do not respond to 204, Stu - if they don't respond to that, do you mean don't even Enter on it? Go by past it?
That's exactly what I mean. Don't Enter on it. Of course, you'll be doing the SCS burn, but don't Enter on that, or you will activate that relay - until you put the spacecraft to SCS control.
Okay; as long as it's in SCS control, though, - I can by pass no problem. the 204 with
That's affirmative, Ken. If you're in SCS control, that relay - the power is interrupted, that - the power to that relay goes through the Spacecraft Control switch, and it's got to be in CMC.
Okay.
And one other point now I'd like to clarify, Ken, is that for your tracking - see after you go to your track attitude, CMC will start you off on a rate drive, and then go to SCS Control and go to Minimum Impulse and Pitch, and just every now and then, you might have to flip it - like between PPI and Midcourse 1, it just took one Minimum Impulse time and kept me right up around the 22 degrees trunnion.
Roger. Sounds like you've been working, too.
No, you've been doing all the good work there, Ken.
Doesn't sound like you guys have gotten any sleep, if you've checked out all these things, plus today's problem. Whoever put that story together today deserves a life supply of whatever he wants.
Watch what you say, Ken. You don't want to overload your pocketbook there. And, hey, I'll give you back to Hank.
Okay; thank you, Stu.
Roger.
Casper, Houston. I'd like to remind you to get your RHC Direct Power Off.
Thank you, sir.
Hank, seems to me I still have my Logic Power Off from early this morning. Maybe I missed where it comes back on. This is the panel 181 Logic. You got any words on where you think that ought to be?
Okay; Ken. You can leave it Off for now. And after we get into SIM bay attitude, after landmark tracking, we're gonna bring up some of the SIM bay.
All righty.
Casper, Houston. We're Go for PDI on the CSM side
Okay.
Casper, I have a mapping camera and pan camera photo PAD for you, if you can squeeze it in now - between now and T1 then.
Roger. Copy.
Why don't you pull me right up under my - little (Vox)
What do you show for T1? Maybe I'm out of whack.
Roger. I've got about 7 minutes to go.
Okay, 05:36, John. Everything looks great.
Okay, looks like this attitude is gonna be just about the one for T1 then, eh?
Roger.
Hey, Casper, how do you read? Over.
Let me hold off until I get this thing loaded, then.
(Vox)
Okay; 5 minutes, Landing Radar breaker is going closed.
Bat 3 is On.
Altitude Transmitter is 3.4, almost. Velocity Transmitter is 0.82.
What's the Altitude Transmitter?
3.8.
Correct.
Roger. Go for PDI. Okay, Pro for final trim.
Casper, Houston. We're showing a difference here between your actual CDUs and your final CDUs.
Go. DET. Go ahead. Enter.
Enter.
Go. My watch is set and wound.
You're looking good now, Casper.
about a second off here.
Okay. Sta - stand by for two minutes, John.
Roger.
Okay, Hank. Tell me again what you just said about the CDUs.
Okay, we're getting some bad data down here, so really we can't be sure. It looks like you ought to be about 28550. Is that right?
Correct.
It looks good from here now, Ken.
Okay.
Fantastic!
Target about ten miles, it looks like. Excellent.
And, Hank, I'm gonna turn my VHF transmission on. I'll be listening to you, but I won't be answering until after they land.
Okay; 2 minutes; Master Arm, On.
Two minutes, Master Arm's On; two lights, Houston.
PGNS is Mode Select; P67 is in. Next thing is at 30 seconds, John. Turn the page.
Roger. Copy.
Hey, Jim, you want us to turn the ranging back on?
Okay. We have Voice Backup.
Fifty seconds.
Okay. At 30, we hit Engine Arm; then we - 30 seconds, Engine Arm goes to Descent, then we...
light. Pro.
Okay. Engine Arm, Descent.
Arm is Descent; Altitude light, Velocity light.
Okay. There's no ullage plus-X.
Okay.
If no ignition, you Start pushbutton, if we get ullage.
Ullage.
Auto ullage.
Pro.
Okay. Engine Start.
Start. Descent Engine Command Override is On.
Stick your throttle in Min.
Okay, Descent Eng - Engine Command Override; Master Arm, Off.
Master Arm is coming Off.
Stand by for throttle up; thrust-to-weight is okay.
22, 23, 24, 25, 26 -
Throttle up!
On time!
Feel that beauty come on. Okay; thrust-to-weight is good - 66,000 feet. They were right on.
Looking good at a minute. Hey, Jim, at pitchover, do you want me to go Aft omni or stay Forward?
Roger. Hey, we're way high, John, we got to get down. Way high on the H-dot.
All right., Charlie. Down to 45 already. How am I doing?
Systems look good. Passing 01:30. Double H-dot almost.
Casper, coming up on ten seconds to T1.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Plus 00800.
Interesting, isn't it?
Okay; we have - Excuse me, John.
Okay. That's entered. That's entered.
Passing two minutes.
And I'm looking good.
Okay, we're going to have to yaw out here at three.
I can take that out when we get dot. AGS and PGNS are tracking right on, Jim - within a tenth of a foot a second.
(Vox) three minutes; propellants.
Pressures are holding good in the - DPS.
All oxidizer pressures looks good.
Three.
Roger. Go at three.
I'll check the ED batteries one more time. And they're still 37 volts, Jim.
Velocity light's out, Charlie.
Okay.
Wrong transmitter, probably.
We got a (Vox) (Vox) way.
Cutting out, Charlie.
I say there's no way to (Vox) get that altitude light at this high.
(Vox) minutes.
We're 50,000. Look at that, Altitude and Velocity lights are out at 50K. Isn't that amazing? Copy that, Houston? Look at that data, Houston. When do you want to accept it?
Okay; it's in.
AGS and PGNS will be getting off a little bit in altitude now. Updates.
Okay, at five minutes. Coming in like gangbusters.
Roger.
39,000. Hey, look at that - hundred - 136 feet difference now. (Vox) radar.
Casper, coming up on time for DAC On.
Roger. We'll get there.
Six minutes; we should be at 32,000. (Vox) not quite back on profile, but almost.
(Vox) 45 percent (Vox) (Vox).
Okay, at 06:30, should be at 30,000.
Mark it; 32,000 (Vox) Okay; looking good, John. Sun angle's getting down there. AGS and PGNS H-dot are right on. Good enough.
About T2, Casper.
Understand; 07:23.
Seven minutes -
Mark it; seven minutes. Roger; go; 104 down and 28,000; still about a thousand high, it looks like.
look pretty good?
Yeah; 223 (Vox) ready; the AGS ready at 14K. Then I do a P60 and then turn the camera on. Breaker's in. Throttle down.
(Vox) on time.
It was right on time, wasn't it?
How you reading, Jim?
Okay. You were clipping a little bit, John.
Okay.
21,000; coming up on 8 minutes.
(Vox) I can see the landing site from here, Charlie.
Amazing.
(Vox)...
Okay, Go at eight. John's got a visual.
130. We're right on, John. Right - right back on profile.
How does it look to you?
(Vox) right in there.
Okay, standing by to update the AGS. Had a little roll steering here.
Roger. Descent 1.
Hey, Jim, we got about a 3-degree roll command in. Okay, Enter, P60 minus 01720 Enter; P67 is coming up, and I'm starting the clock - I mean the camera. Okay, we're out at 12,000, John. Go at 9. Coming down at 182; a little steep. Okay, well, we're gonna be right on. It's just about right on, maybe 10 feet; 10,000 feet. Stand by. P64 at 8200. Pro.
Pitchover.
Pitchover. Hey, there it is. Gator, Lone Star, right on!
Call - call me the things, Charlie.
Okay; it's 40 deg - 38 degrees. Palmetto and Dot, North Ray.
Okay.
Looks like we're going to be able to make it, John. There's not too many blocks up there. Okay, 4000 feet - 4 - 4...
Okay. Go for landing.
42 LPD.
42 (Vox)
Okay, 3900 feet.
Okay. Two to the south, Charlie.
Okay. It's in. Okay, 42 - 41 LPD. 3000 feet on profile.
Okay, there's - we're coming right down. Going to be a little past...
41 LPD.
Okay....
2000 feet, 60 on profile.
Okay.
Okay, 42 LPD. Couple of more in. 1400 feet, 44 down. Looking good. Okay, out at 1000 feet. Right on profile. 54 LPD; dropping out the bottom now. 800 feet, 30 down.
Okay, Houston. We're going to be just a little long. But, we're just now abeam Double Spot.
Okay, 23 - 22 down at 500 feet.
Okay.
Some big blocks over here to the left, John.
Okay.
Okay, 300 feet, 15 down.
Okay. Okay. Take over, Charlie.
Okay. Okay, fuel is (Vox) at 10 per cent. There comes a shadow. Okay, 200 feet, 11 down. Give me a couple of clicks up. Okay, 5 down at 130 feet; 2 forward.
Lo Mult. Drifting. Okay; looking good. Perfect place over here, John. A couple of big boulders. Not too bad.
Okay; 80 feet, down at 3 - looking super. There's dust.
Okay, down at 3, 50 feet. Down at 4. Give me one click up. Okay, back it up slightly.
Okay, 2 down. Stand by for contact. Come on, let her down. You're leveled off. Let her on down. Okay, 7 - 6 percent. Plenty fat.
Contact. Stop. Boom. Pro. Engine Arm. Wow! man. Look at that!
Pro. Engine Arm. Descent Engine Command Override.
Okay.
Okay, 413.
in. Check the APS.
Well, we don't have to walk far to pick up blocks, Houston. We're among them.
Good show, gang.
Close, open, close. Old Orion is finally here, Houston. Fantastic!
And I can look right out to the left and see - see Double Spot, and we 're about...
Okay, you got it.
Okay, we're forward and to the north - forward and to the north of Double Spot; I would guess about 200 meters to the north and maybe 150 meters to the - to the west. (Vox) It's not flatlands, though, Houston.
Well, that attitude is super though, John.
Yeah, and I could see - I could see all the way to the ground. Just like flying the LTV - piece of cake.
(Vox) good. Ascent pressure...
Henry, I'm standing by to copy. Do you want me to take Dead Band this Option 5, or a Wide?
Stand by, Ken. I'll get an answer for you, and we're working on whether we got a stay or not on T1.
Okay; sounds like you did pretty good.
They did a beautiful job.
Ken, we'll went Narrow deadband on that. We got a camera pass coming.
Casper, Houston. Orion is stay for T1.
Okay. Thank you.
And, Ken, while you're maneuvering with this P20 attitude, I'd like to tell you about the Flight Plan. We want you to go - to do everything that's in the Flight Plan through doffing your PGA up to what's in your Flight Plan at 99:20. And then, we're in the process of getting you a whole new thing to operate from. And I have you a mapping camera and pan camera photo PAD.
Okay. Yeah, I don't mind taking the suit off. And, okay; want to give me those PADs now?
Okay. Mapping camera: T-start 105:29:27; T-stop 108:2...
Wait a minute, now. Wait a minute. Hank, I don't have any place to write these things, I don't think. I've got to go look for them. Thank you.
Okay.
What's the best place to work from? The basic time line with the real GETs?
I'll tell you what our overall plan, Ken, we want to get in a - the camera passes tonight. They're terminator passes - the - before we lose the opportunity, because the terminator's moving. And then we're gonna do a clock sync somewhere during the night, and scrub and get back on the Flight Plan. We're gonna scrub out about six hours of stuff.
Okay. Tell you what, I got a page here that I can work on. Why don't you give me a summary of the next couple hours, here? And I'll just write something in the Flight Plan here.
Okay. Stand by. I'll see if I can get something worked out for you.
Go ahead with the camera PADs. Yes, I ought to have those, they'll come up on the next rev.
Casper, Houston. You're almost unreadable. I'll have to wait until we get a little better comm.
Is that better comm now?
Hey, that sounds much better. We're putting together a little summary here for you.
Okay.
Casper, Houston. Could you bring up the High Gain? Pitch, plus 41; Yaw, 228.
Casper, Houston. I have your little rundown for the next rev, if you're ready to copy.
Okay; all set.
At 105:20, MC/LA cover, open; 105:23 MC, Extend; 105:28 LA, On; 105:29 PC, Standby; Stereo, Power, Operate; T-start; MC, M is Motion; Increase, barber pole/On; MC, On; T-start; 105:50 AOS; 105:50, same time, SIM bay activation, NS deploy to 8.4 feet at 61 seconds; GR, deploy to 7.5 feet 53 seconds; that's 53 seconds. Then MS, Experiment, On; Ion source, Standby; AP - should be Alpha P/XR, Cover Open; XR On; 105:59, TC Mode Standby (P-stop), Power Off (MSFN-Q).
Okay. You ready for a readback on that, or have you got some more to fill in?
Go ahead and read that back, and then I'll give you your PAD.
Okay...
Stand by there, Ken.
if it will help you any, I'll be glad...
Would you give us P00 and Accept? We'll up-link your state vector while you're doing that.
How about if I just give you Accept?
That'll do fine.
What I was gonna suggest, if it'll help you - do whatever's easiest - I'll be glad if you want to give me the code and tell me to have it - have the SIM bay in a particular mode by a given time.
Okay. That's a good idea.
Then, when we get on the front side, I'll just sort of hustle around and do whatever you suggest until we get back to a written Flight Plan. I do need about 20 minutes here somewhere to get my suit off and get the cockpit stowed. It looks like a disaster area.
Okay. I concur in that. I'd like to give you the PADs now if you're ready.
All set.
Okay; mapping camera PAD is T-start, 105:29:27; T-stop is 108:28:13. Pan camera, T-start, 105:29:27; T-stop, 105:59:27. And they just pointed out they made an error here at 105:29 in your Flight Plan. The Image Motion should come On after T-start with the mapping camera. That was a procedural error.
Roger. I understand that; no sweat.
Okay, let me read back what I have. 105:20, you want the mapper door open; at 23, you want to extend it. At 28, the Laser Altimeter comes On; 29 we get Pan Camera to Standby, Stereo, and Power; to Operate at P-start, which is 05:29:27. The Mapping Camera comes On at 105:29:27. The IMC comes On, and we put it to barber pole, on the Image Motion. At 50, we'll get AOS, and we'd like to have SIM bay activation. It's my understanding you'd like for me to hold SIM bay activation until we're within AOS.
That's affirmative.
Mass Spec Boom deployed to eight feet, which is T plus 01. I got your answer, thank you. Gamma Ray deployed to seven and a half feet. That's 53 seconds. The Mass Spec Experiment On, and the Ion Source is Standby. The Alpha X-Ray door comes open; the X-Ray goes On. At 59:27, the Pan Camera Mode goes to Standby, and the Power comes Off when you give me a call.
That's a good readback, Ken.
Okay. I think we've got it made. We may get caught up yet.
Okay. And I guess when we start bringing that on, Ken...
and we ought to bring the S-Band Aux TV to 5, so we can get the data.
Okay. Any harm in my doing that now so we don't forget it?
Go right ahead.
Okay. You've got it. And when we get AOS next time, I'm content to - while we're reading things up, I'll be prepared to copy some things. And I'll be prepared to hop around and reconfigure whatever you need in real time.
Okay. That's real good, Ken. Go ahead and get your suit off and get comfortable.
Okay. I'll - I'm just about to the point where I'll take my comm carrier off so I'll be off comm here for about ten minutes. What's LOS time?
Casper, we have LOS in about 12 minutes, somewhere around 03.
Okay. I may not be back up for that, but, if not, I'll just execute this Flight Plan.
Roger; Ken, and good work.
You guys did all the work today. I tell you, if we ever get a chance to look out that window, it's gonna stand you on your ears. That earthshine is as spectacular as any of the other things, which is much to my surprise.
I hope, with our position now, we can get on to doing some looking.
Yeah, well - I cheated a little bit there, and we didn't really have an awful lot to do while we were just spinning around. And some of those low revs came up with some very interesting observations. In particular, the one that strikes me most vividly is the fact that - if you remember all of those apparent lineations we saw in Silver Spur in the places around Hadley in the pictures. Those same kind of things appear all over the surface of the Moon down now. It's just everywhere I look in the area where there's any topographical relief. They go in all different directions. I haven't been able to sort out if there's some preferred direction or some reason for it. What - what I did happen to notice as I came across Theophilus on one of those passes was that you see this in the walls of Theophilus - that's on the interior - and in the places where there are craters around the outside or some kind of - looks like some fracture or something of that nature that goes across Theophilus or into it. You see what looks like a reflection in that these patterns - if you had a crater on the rim - these patterns would sorta show up like you would expect from a shock pattern. They would be radial and concentric to that crater. And these little lines seem to take that kind of a twist and then the fact that some of them go along with topographic highs. I'll see if I can get some photos. I didn't take any photos on this stuff because I didn't have a chance, but I looked out and saw some of these things, and they're just everywhere.
That sounds like a real interesting observation there, Ken.
Okay. I'm going to get my suit off, and if I don't catch you at LOS, I'll see you at AOS.
Okay.
The computer is yours, Ken.
