Okay, mapping camera I just did.
(Yawn)
Okay, the Laser is On. The camera is extended, and the cover is open.
Okay, coming up on 29:57 for a Pan Camera Operate.
Mm-mm!
Okay, if you're listening, tape recorder, we're passing over King now. And - something I hadn't noticed before kind of unusual out here. There's a lot of clumpy material all around King. The central peaks definitely have big blocks sticking up in them. The things that we've called dark material are not dark, but rather they are big blocks that cast some pretty long shadows. They look like they're piled on top of some very soft and unconsolidated material. But they are indeed big blocks on the central peaks. And - I'll also say that they're on - surprisingly, they're mostly on the eastern side, but there are some on the western side. The floor of the crater looks like a big, big flow - lots of flow bands and things. In the crater rim to the west, it looks like there's a definite textural change at the top; and it looks like it has a dark band and then a light band, then it goes back to the same old dark gray. This entire area has a large amount of light material around it. It is not entirely associated with - with the - the crater King. It looks like there's an area in - We've even come into some new swirls I didn't know had existed, but I think they do. And I got a picture to take here. Well, I'll get a picture of them next time around. Let's look for a topographic expression.
Where'd you go, you sucker? [Sigh.] What'd that color wheel say I should have here? Let's see, 1/250, f/8.
Hello, Houston. Casper.
Casper, Houston. How do you read?
Loud and clear.
Casper, Houston. We need barber pole plus three on the camera.
Henry, I'm gonna - Okay, barber pole plus three.
You have it. And would you remind me when you get about 30 seconds from Pan Camera to Stop.
Will do.
Okay.
I want to mark something on my chart, and then I'll talk to you for just a minute.
Roger.
Okay. And I put Battery A on Charge at 105:35.
Roger. Copy.
I've got you out the window now; but it looks like half of you have gone away. It's all black.
I hope we're in the sunny half.
Oh, I bet you're in the dark half. Aren't you? That shows how long it's been since you've been outside.
It has been a while.
As I came over, I finally got squared away; and as came across King, I had the binoculars out. And, sure enough, on the central peaks down there - the things we've been debating for so long about whether they were streaks or outcrops or what they were - are large blocks, which are on the - the central peaks. Most of the blocks seem to lie on the eastern side of the peaks; however, there are a few blocks on the western side - enough that you can tell that the reason they look dark is they cast pretty long shadows because they're pretty huge blocks. The floor looks like it's - looks like an old mud flow. It's really a strange looking floor. It's got lots of flow bands and patterns in it. In the crater rim to the west, on the interior shows at least three distinct shades of this gray. The upper one is the same color as the surface, which is a light - sort of a darker gray. Then there's a light gray band, which runs parallel to it. And then the dark band again below that. And the light band is, perhaps, a quarter of the depth of the crater wall. To the north and west of King, I ran into some things that looked like the same sort of swirls we've been looking at up around Al-Birumi and around Reiner Gamma. These two are in the highlands. And with the binoculars, it's my impression that these probably have a certain amount of relief - topographic relief - with them. But they look - when you look straight down on them, they look exactly like the other things we've been looking at. And I took a quick picture of that thing, and I put it on magazine Victor. And if you'll keep a record of these things, Ed[?], that one is on Victor at exposure - oh, excuse me, it's magazine November November; and that's exposure 41.
We got that, Ken. And, Casper, could we get High Gain, Auto?
You've got Auto, now.
And it's oscillating. Suppose I go back to - there it is. Okay. I had a little tone in my headset that was beeping very softly, and the signal strength was doing the same thing.
Roger. You want to go Block on the computer, Ken. And we show your Optics still in Manual. And, Ken, you're about ten seconds from Pan Camera, Off.
Okay. The computer's in Block. Okay.
I was a little late with that one.
[Laughter.] Okay. No sweat. We got it done. I'll check the Optics. And when you're ready, I'll start configuring the SIM bay.
And, Hank, would you verify that it's okay to take the Optics and put them to CMC - or to zero them. I sure don't want to take any chances with it.
Okay. It's okay. They say nothing will happen.
And, Ken, we've got a little trouble with the High Gain. We need to go back to Reacq.
Okay. I'm in Reacq. Want to go back to Auto now?
Stand by. Okay. Cleared to go to Auto.
Okay. Auto it is. You got a good one that time. And if you're ready, I'm ready to start deploying things here.
Okay, Ken. Would you stand by? We're waiting for OSO to get his data.
Oh, very well.
Dum-de-dum (singing).
Ken, while we're waiting here, how did your extend time go on the mapping camera?
I didn't time it that time, Hank. I - sorry.
Okay.
Casper. Pan Camera Power, Off.
Okay. Pan Camera Power is Off.
Mark it.
OSO has his data now. We can proceed with boom deployment.
Okay. We button this up. Okay, the first one you'd like is a - how about a mass spec for 61 seconds?
That's affirmative.
Okay. Going to Deploy...
Mark.
Deploy is Off this time.
Roger. You're clear to start the gamma ray out.
Gamma ray is going out.
Gamma ray is stopped.
Okay, Ken. And could you give us barber pole plus 4 on the Map Camera.
Okay. That should be one more step. Right?
That's affirmative.
All right. You've got it. Okay, now the Mass Spec experiment is going to On. The Ion Source is going to Standby.
Alpha Particle and X-Ray Door is coming Open...
Mark. And it's good.
And the X-Ray is coming to On...
Mark.
[Garble] somebody looks real good right now a - like to read you up a TEI-26 PAD block data.
Okay. Would you stand by just a second while I get some food going here?
Okay.
Ken, for your information we're planning on your retirement - to rest that is, at 109:30, the nominal time.
I'm glad you clarified that.
I hope you realize I'm too young to retire.
Roger.
Can you tell me anything about the status of the surface guys? Are they gonna get at least two EVAs out of this?
I think the plan is now, Ken, for two EVA's. They are busy buttoning up the LM now and getting ready to get some sleep. They're gonna move the EVA times - at least the first one's gonna be tomorrow morning about 10:30 Central, I think.
Okay.
And we're gonna change our shifts around too, so I'll be on again in the morning, and then Stu'll get it in the afternoon.
Okay. All right, now I got something soaking here. I'll be ready to copy. Okay. Go ahead.
All rightee. TEI-26, SPS/G&N; 38726; plus 0.72, plus 1.33; 125:14:27.47; plus 3170.3, plus 1101.6, minus 0310.1; 181, 089, 021; rest of the PAD, NA. The set stars are the same as on your Circ PAD; same attitude; ullage, two jets, 17 seconds; other, Lambda of the Moon at TIG, minus 179.02. End of PAD.
Okay. That's a TEI-26, SPS/G&N; 38726; plus 0.72 plus 1.33; 125:14:27.47; plus 3170.3, plus 1101.6, minus 0310.1; 181, 089, and 021; Sirius and Rigel were the angles off the circ pad; two jets, 17 seconds; Lambda 179.02, and that's a minus.
Good readback, Ken.
Okay, Ken; we're gonna leave you alone and let you eat now. We've still got about 49 minutes to LOS. And at your convenience, sometime a little later, we'd like to get the crew status report from this morning, which was omitted.
[Laughter.] Okay. That's gonna take some bookkeeping; I'll work on that. Sure would rather look out the window, Hank.
Did anybody ever give you some words on the undervolt last night?
Yes. The words we got were that I inadvertently attempted to get the pan camera on the same time the heaters all came on and - I guess the transient was just - just too much.
Roger. That's - that's the story as I get it.
Is that the way you understand it?
Right. That's affirmative.
Okay, well - I'm sorry we missed those photos, but it - it sure seamed like the prudent thing to do at the time.
We concur.
Henry, another thing that turns out to be a - a pretty nice little gadget is these nets that are in the stowage compartments. Particularly when you get in the food locker when it's about half full. Things are able to stay under some semblance of control. And that's a mighty nice thing.
So those are working out real good, huh?
Yes, it sure is. That's been a very - help.
And, Ken you don't have to acknowledge. Look our plans are in the morning first thing to give you a clock sync and get back into the Flight Plan.
That sounds like a good plan.
Oh, one thing you've got to be careful of up here is - when you go to look outside, you kind of have to watch it because you get your - you get too greedy and you get your nose up against the window. About one breath is all it takes, and it's all fogged over.
Roger. I understand.
I think our humidity must be running fairly high.
I'm passing over a nice little guy right now and would guess - on, I haven't been paying any attention to where I am - looks like I must be - probably looking the the north at - somewhere around the - Guts - Gutenberg uplands. And I'm passing over a little crater that's got another large fill in the center and nice big crater in top of him, a little crater chain around it. And as I said earliest, everything out here has this linear pattern or these lineaments and it doesn't matter whether it's a flat surface, a horizontal, vertical, inside of a wall of a crater - they all seem to have it in one form or another.
Okay, Ken. if - if our plot board up here is right, you ought to be in - coming up on landing site.
Okay. Let's see.
Oh, maybe I'm out the wrong window here.
You're right, Henry.
And, if you'll remember that little black dot that we drew on our map and talked about. There's a little black spot about in the right area, and I don't have my map so I just looked out at it. But I'll come back next time and take a look and - sure like it is something - entirely different texture.
Are you talking about right in the area of the landing site?
In the - in the landing site area, but not in the landing site - traverse regions. But that little dark thing looked like a - a possible cone that was out to the - north and to the west. There's a little black dot out there that looks like there may be something that's - that is distinctive. And next time I come over, I'll be better prepared to look for it.
Okay. I remember that one, that was in the edge of the plotter, wasn't it?
Yes, sir.
I tell you, it sure is impressive how much - how much the scenery changes as the Sun angle changes and how rapidly that goes down.
Your plot boards show me over Albategnius, you say?
Say again.
Does the plot board show me over Albategnius?
That's affirmative.
Okay. Now let me tell you a little something here. Just to the north and mostly to the west of Albategnius, the ground - and I think in the higher Sun it's going to look like - look a lot like Imbrium sculpture but not here. It has the mottled effect and the same appearance that the Descartes area had at the same Sun angle yesterday. And that's almost directly south of - it's a little south and a little bit to - of Ptolemaeus, and it's a little bit to the east of Alphonsus.
Roger. You ought to be coming up on a terminator now. Is that right? Pretty close to it?
Yes, sir. My view is disappearing rapidly.
You should be over Ptolemaeus now.
Casper, for your information, everything in the SIM bay is looking good now.
Okay. I just saw something that - I really don't know what to make - I'm in the - I think the spacecraft is just about in the dark, but not quite. We've passed the ground terminator, and I'm looking out of window number 3 down towards the ground. I'm trying to get a preview of what's coming in earthshine. And there's a bright flash that's going along out there. At first, I thought there was something that was on the deck, but it's apparently a piece of debris that's in orbit with us. It's sitting there, tumbling over and flashing.
It's traveling along with you.
It moves across the ground, so it must be a piece of debris. Yeah.
As a matter of fact, I look around now and there's quite a few of those.
Can you get any idea how far away they are...
... Depends on what effect that has on - no I can't, Hank. It's just a piece of something that's out there, and it's tumbling so that it gives you an occulting reflection. No field [feel?] at all for it, but it's moving in approximately the same velocity that we are.
Ken, in reference to your observations of Crater King, we got some ideas about those swirls that are northwest of King. And we'd like for you to get a comparison of those with the swirls of Ibn Yunus. And I wonder if those also have topographic expression?
Okay. I'm too - I'll have to do that some other time, because today I'm too far south to see those things up by Ibn Yunus. I can just barely see up to Neper.
Roger.
But we sure need to keep that in mind.
And another thing you might be thinking about if you get an opportunity on some round is to get us a description of the area north of Crater King, including the Soviet Mountains.
Yeah. I was thinking of looking at that. I really hadn't planned to spend much time on King this time. I was going to just kind of look at the - look at the ole crater there. But, got so interested in it that - it looked like there's another crater that's just to the east of King that has, say, a little bisected, central feature just like King. You know the thing that makes that - that little Y-shape. And it looks the same way. That's kind of - kind of interesting, I thought.
Yeah. I guess we hadn't seen that in the photos.
I guess, Hank, I ought to be passing Flamsteed now.
Roger. That looks right.
It's really impressive how much you can see in the dark.
I don't believe you can see as much now as you could last night. Of course, partly we're - I'm higher now than I was when I looked at it last night. And the Earth is noticeably smaller, so I guess it's getting - it's losing it's reflective ability rather rapidly.
Roger.
I was also very impressed with the way you could see the - the LM outline in earthshine. That was something I had not anticipated. Last night as we came across - well let me see what it was - it starts with an H - over on the western rim. Hevetius. Yeah. We drove across that last night, and you could really see the floor patterns in that beautifully.
Okay, Hank. Let's see. I owe you a crew status report from this morning. Right?
Roger.
Okay. Let's see if I can give you that thing now.
Okay. Alpha 1, 22047; Alpha 3, 6; Alpha 4, negative. Bravo 1, 15044; Bravo 3, 6; Bravo 4, negative. Charlie 1, 21095; Charlie 3, 7; Charlie 4, 1 Seconal.
We copy, Ken.
Okay. Now I'm going to try to go down the menus here. We're looking for Day 4. Is that correct?
Affirmative.
Okay. On commander, Meal A, you can delete the mixed fruit, and meal B, you can delete pea soup; Meal C, delete chicken stew and add a chocolate pudding. For me, you can take Meal A and delete the mixed-fruit. You can delete the bread and Jelly. On Bravo, you can delete the pea soup, meatballs. On Charlie, you can delete the chicken stew, and I guess that takes care of those things. The reason for so many of these - we all deleted these canned things, because we got them all over the spacecraft last time, and we decided that we really couldn't afford to do that again.
Roger. We copy.
Okay. And let me find Charlie's here.
Okay. Here's Charlie's. And on Meal A, you can delete mixed fruit and jelly. Meal B, you can delete sugar cookies. Meal C, you can delete the pudding and the chocolate bar.
Roger. Copy.
Now we're coming across Hevelius again, and I can see Grimaldi and a couple of fractures that go across its rim. You can really see a lot of detail here. You can see the rilles, you can see - as everybody pointed out, the - they look like ribbons that are just dropped down, and they go all the way across the crater like Hevelius. And it looks like they go out from [garble], and they come down - in fact, they go all the way down to Grimaldi. And just before they get to Grimaldi, they run into a crater. And it looks like they might have been filled a little bit. In fact, it looks the same way that some of the rilles that dot the Fra Mauro, look like they've been filled in. Then there is a very smooth patch that's lined up with this graben that runs from there to Grimaldi. No, I'm sorry. I'm calling Riccioli, Grimaldi. The crater I'm talking about now is Riccioli, and it's got quite a few fractures that run out. And it looks like a flow pattern. It looks just like looking down on a - on a long tongue of lava like we've seen terrestrially. I don't mean to infer that there is lava, but I'm just saying that it has the same appearance. It is coming out of the northeastern corner of Riccioli. And it has what looks like little ripple patterns on it, like you'd expect for flow bands, but they aren't quite as arcuate, and they don't take quite the same - the same concentric pattern that you'd expect from a flow front. But this little crater coming down from Hevelius - the rille it comes down to there and then it hits the crater, and then it gets a very, very smooth spot. And then it runs in and you can see continuations of these lineaments right on across Riccioli.
Roger. That sounds real interesting.
Riccioli has quite a few elongate little craters around it. Several of them that are - elongate - and one of them is quite long. I'd say it's maybe - it's curved and looks like it's maybe ten kilometers long. And it has just a slight arc to it. But, it is a very elongate feature. Now, we are moving into material that's very hilly and I don't see a lot of small craters. I don't see a lot of bright ones. You can see bright rims in here quite well. The things that do stand out to the west of Riccoli are the very dramatic cross cutting graben-type rilles. They cross, in one place here, almost 90 degrees to each other. Looks like I am looking at a very subdued old basin. And, these things go across the hills and right on across the basin floor. And, I'm not sure, but I would guess that some of these things - other lineaments I am seeing - they're running toward the northeast or more than likely things coming out of Orientale. I should be coming in towards the outer rim of the Orientale Basin. You get-the same kind of impression of - at the terminator when the earthshine runs out as you do when sunshine runs out. The only thing it's different is you don't - you don't get to see quite as much of the - everything is a lot more subdued. And, you don't get shadows that are nearly as long. Or, at least not as bright. There's also, running down here - there is one ridge and I am sure I am looking in a ridge instead of a graben. I've got grabens and cut it. But this thing has a bright line on it that looks like ridge that runs northeast, southwest along with some of the graben. And, it seems it's one of the first big ridges I've seen that cuts up over a highlands clump of material. That's all just to the - just to the west of Riccioli.
Roger. Copy.
Ken, we have...
Okay, Houston, we are getting ready to...
Ken, we've got your Flight Plan here...
Go ahead, we're ready for LOS, so...
Okay. Do you have time to read it to me?
I think so; if you are ready to copy.
All right. Can you tell me where I should start?
Okay. LOS will be at 107:02. Approx...
Okay. Should I be in the Flight Plan or should I be writing in something separate?
I think you better write in something separate.
Okay, stand by. Okay, shoot.
Okay. 107:02 LOS. And approximately 107:10 - approximately eight minutes after LOS, configure DSE - stop High Bit Rate, Command Reset, Forward. 107:21, sunrise. 107:25, O2 Heaters 1 and 2, Auto. O2 Heaters, three, Off. 107:38, Image Motion, Increase. Barber pole, plus 3. 107:48, AOS. 107:57, Pan Camera, Standby - Stereo, Power. 107:58, 13 - This is your T-start. Pan Camera, Operate. Mass Spectrometer, Ion Source, On. At the same time - right after you get the Pan Camera. 108:04, Motion, Increase, barber pole, plus 4. T-stop. 108:28:13 - that's also T-stop for the mapping camera, which read up - I read that up to you earlier. It's Pan Camera, Standby at T-stop. Pan Camera, Off MSFN cue. Mapping Camera, Off (T-stop). Wait 30 seconds. Mapping Camera, Standby. Image Motion, Off. Laser Altimeter, Off. Mapping Camera, Retract. Mapping Camera Laser Altimeter Cover, Closed. 108:40, Mass Spec, Deploy. Gamma Ray, Deploy. 108:50, return to the Flight Plan, at last. And pick up with the P20 and follow on with those activities through your pre-sleep checklist and - I've already - the only thing different there is I've already given you PDI-26 PAD.
Outstanding. You guys really do good work. Okay, I think I've got everything here. I didn't have any questions about it. You want me - How much time do we have? I don't know whether it's worth trying to read back or not?
Okay, we've got 2 minutes to LOS. You don't have to read back. I think...
Okay, here goes. 107:02, LOS. 107:10, configure DSE - stop High Bit Rate, Command Reset, Forward. 21 is sunrise; 25, O2 heaters, 1 and 2 to Auto. O2 Heaters Tank 3, Off. 38, IMC, Increase; barber pole, plus 3. 48, AOS; 57, Pan, Standby - Stereo and Power. 58, 13 - Pan Camera to Operate; Mass Spec Ion Source, On. 04, that's 108:04, IMC to barberpole, plus 4. 28, 13, T-stop for Pan Camera to Standby and Mapping Camera to Off. Thirty seconds, then to Standby, IMC, Off. Laser Altimeter, Off; Mapping Camera, Retract. Mapping Camera Cover, Closed. At 108:40, Mass Spec to Gamma Ray to Deploy. 108:50, return to the Flight Plan.
Good readback, Ken.
Okay. Outstanding.
Okay, we got less than a minute to go. Stu will see you on the other side.
All right, Hank. Thank you very much. You've done a good day's work. See you tomorrow evening.
Roger.
Okay; we're coming up on the crater Sharonov, and we're trying to catch up on the photo pass. And I'm aimed roughly between Sharonov and Anderson. And we'll fly along here until Spencer Jones, and the next time we have something coming up is an IMC change at [107:]38. Sharonov is a rather interesting crater. It's got a lot of big slumps that are in the wall to the east that you don't see, looks like the western wall. They're in the shadow, but they're very, very predominant slumps, some with little craters. They look very smooth and rounded. In fact, they - the walls to the south look smooth and rounded compared to the - to the walls that are lighted by maybe a sunlight illumination effect. There's a - across the Moon, now, we see several different kinds of material, and there doesn't seem to be any exception. We see Cayley-like material which is - this altitude, is anything that has lots of little pits and relatively smooth surfaces. And coming up now on Spencer Jones. And we see that this area out here has a - a lot of gently rolling topography. You see streaks of it, and then - well, I see some little hummocks, and then I see it going out to smoother areas. I'll try to compare this with the - with the Cayley. I see several places where there's little clusters of holly [?] cratered area. I see there are more craters than the - the average that you would expect.
Shifting to 1/250. 1/250 I shifted to at Spencer Jones. I'm shifting a little later because it's a rev later. Spencer Jones is again another one of these strange ones that looks like it's slumped. It looks like it's been here forever with slumps in it. They're all around it. They don't have sharp terraces anywhere. I have the impression that within the material that comes from Spencer Jones down - down into Pap - Papaleski is even smoother, and it looks like it flows down in there and just creeps over it. And this is true all over the north - excuse me, the northeast and also the southwest side.
Take a quick look down in there. Back to our strip.
Apparently some of these things I'm looking at north of Papaleski there that they're unnamed on our - our chart, but look like they're just filled with so much stuff, big blobs of things that couldn't all be slumps that just fell down from the side, but they'd almost have to run in to form the kind of blobs that they have. There's one here that - It's a little to the north. It's a very strange looking thing.
Man, everywhere you look there's craters and craters and hills. Hummocks up on the northern horizon. Let's get one shot of that stuff. Okay. Well, I guess that I'm not coming up on Van Gent. And I guess it's about time for me to shift to - to an f/8.
Man, there's more of that stuff. It's just all over here. What looks like areas have just flown down into these big ditches.
Okay; there's the end of that strip.
I've got Mendeleev - out here also.
Okay; at 38, going barber pole plus 3.
Hilly. Stop taking it across the wall. Oh, I should have taken that thing. Oh!
Okay; at 38, go barber pole plus 3.
Barber pole; 1, 2, 3.
Okay. Catch Mendeleev.
Oh, come on. There we go.
Manual and Wide, okay [garble]. Setting [garble] f/11, 1/250. Okay, take pictures.
Mark. That's magazine November November again.
Right up over Green. Mr. Hartmann and Mr. Green.
Well, there's some very, very smooth places in the floor out here.
Well, got a lot of smooth floor areas that slump and come right up over this crater. And that just looks like so much gypsum out there; it's just soft. I just can't believe any of that stuff has ever been crystal. Interesting little patterns on these little hills down here. Got a little ripple to it.
Ha! There's definitely a dark albedo unit that comes down through here. I don't think I understand.
Boy, it sure shows in the binoculars as an entirely different texture. When you look at it, it doesn't look surprisingly so much. Just to the north - just to the northeast of Green, there is a distinctly different textured unit that shows up. It looks like a flow. It's just spread out in there. And it does indeed look distinctly different. The terraces in Green are large banks, but there's no evidence of bedding in them. They just look all slumped, except for some little patches every now and then, flat places. And one little spot looked that like it had a dark - block on it or something.
Okay, now, let's see, what's next? Man, whoever put that Velcro on there just didn't believe you'd want to use it. Okay, back to the Flight Plan. See what I'm doing. Okay, we got Hartmann and Green. Let's see here; I concluded this one at - at 145. Looks like I'm supposed to take two.
Where are you [garble] catch up in attitude.
Descartes. Here we go. And Crozier. Magazine Papa Papa.
Crozier. Wonder where he's gonna be. Yeah, we can catch him. Gonna let me do it on the same -
Okay, I can catch her.
Best way to catch those would be look up on [garble]
P7, P1, P7, P16, next one coming up, P12.
f/8, 1/250. Next - Crozier.
Then Ptolemaeus. And I'll need - to get Ptolemaeus, I'll need magazine SS. Okay, SS it is.
Houston, are you there?
Roger, Casper. Houston standing by.
Well, hello there.
And, Casper. We'd like you to have - go back to Reacq on the high gain, please.
Okay. Every time I try that it looks like it does worse. Well, it's holding in there this time, I guess.
And, Ken. Sometime, at your convenience, we'd like to have you push on your biomed sensors. Getting a little noise on the data. Just like to see something cleared up.
Okay. I'll get to that in just a minute. I'm flapping right now with some - trying to make up the things we missed here. And I just finished putting most of Sharonov and Mendeleev on magazine November November. And I'll try to pick up the one that [garble] if you'll tell me I can do it on November November.
Okay, stand by.
And, Casper. Could you give us a frame number on November November.
Okay. How about - ah - 145?
Okay, 145. I believe that.
And, don't let me forget things like this pan camera thing coming up, because I am sitting here getting camera set up. I am going to try to get the earthshine sequence in this trip, too.
Okay. Roger. We'll give you a call.
And, Ken, it's about time now. Within the next 15 seconds or so, if you want to get the Pan Camera, Standby Stereo on Power.
Okay, thank you, sir. Standby, Stereo, Power. You've got it.
Roger.
Well, I'll tell you. Just a little reminder like that can go a long ways toward getting something done in here.
Jolly good. We'll try to please.
Okay, Ken, you're 30 seconds from the T-start time on the pan camera.
Okay.
Ten seconds, Ken.
And, you've got it.
Okay. Roger...
Barber pole in gray and away she goes.
Very good and Ion Source, On.
Ion Source, On.
Mark.
Okay. And, Ken, on those last November November, we'll give you 30 frames on that one.
Okay. I guess it was scheduled for another magazine, but I just don't have time to change it.
No Sweat. You got 30.
Okay. That should be plenty. And, I got the magazine XX loaded in the Hycon, and I am ready to go to work on that as soon as we get in the darkness. Well, maybe that won't work, because I guess you got a P52 and things coming for me.
Stand by on that, Ken.
Okay, Ken, what we'd like for you to do after this Sunside pass, after you finish up here, is to get a good night's sleep. We're not showing you anything scheduled after that.
Okay, I thought there was a P52 or something I was supposed to get as soon as it got dark. I'll - I can sneak that in there, too. I hate to see us miss very much of the things that we almost did.
No, Ken. This - It's not scheduled. The last thing you need to...
Well [garble].
... do is 108 plus 50, where you go in to do the activities there in the flight plan; you go right into the pre-sleep checklist and we'll see you in the morning.
Oh, okay. Outstanding. Very good. Thank you.
Roger.
Okay, Casper, if we can have the High Gain to Auto; please, sir.
You've got it.
Okay.
Can you look in your plot-board me approximately what my longitude is right now?
Oh, Ken, it's probably about 70 East, something like that. You're just coming across the western rim of Smythii there.
Okay, good enough.
Yes, here comes our old friend, Langrenus.
Okay, Ken, we need barber pole [garble]...
I guess you need a little barber pole, don't you? Okay, that should be one plus what we have.
Hey, Stu, if I put 30 frames on this Crozier, I won't get that first strip of Kant - Andel. You think about doing away with the intervalometer and taking the pictures with less overlap and try to squeeze it all onto this one mag?
Okay, stand by. Let's take a look at that, Ken.
Okay, I got a couple of minutes before I start.
Okay.
Oh.
Okay, Ken, you can go ahead and disregard the intervalometer and try to get them both on that same mag.
Okay, thank you very much. I'm all set up to come up on Crozier.
Okay.
Well, it looks like I ran out anyhow. I got 165 and the magazine's empty, and I just finished the strip of Crozier.
Okay, I copy that.
That's on magazine November November.
Okay.
And I'll go see if I can get Papa Papa out here real fast.
Okay, Papa Papa is out and loaded. I'll try to pick up Descartes to Andel with it.
Roger.
Stu, there is a definite textural similarity between the material or the bright spot by Descartes Crater and the things around Stone Mountain. However, it is a lighter albedo. It's a shade lighter and the line of demarcation seems to come along the long crater.
Okay. We got that.
And another strange sight over here, I think it's Andel, that's where I'm supposed to be ending the strip. But there's another crater here that looks like it's flooded, except this same flooded material seems to run up on the outside. You can see a definite patch of this stuff that's run down inside an old crater. And that material at least lays on top of it, but it lays on top of things that are outside and higher. It's a very strange operation. I guess we'll have to wait and let someone that knows what they're talking about look at the pictures.
All righty, Ken. Sounds real interesting.
Man, this is unbelievable. It's really something. Everywhere you turn, there's something new. And let's see if we can get in the old SS on Ptolemaeus here.
Well, I'll tell you what. I'm going to have to skip Ptolemaeus. The terminator is still on the rim.
Okay.
Just for kicks, though, I'm going to show you one on frame SS that is really fascinating. And I'm just on the eastern rim of Ptolemaeus. I mentioned it last time. I'm going to take a little strip of these.
And then see if I can get - yeah, that ought to be good enough. Okay, I took - I took it up to 20 frames, and I used about five of these on SS. And what I took it of was - This material that's on the eastern rim of Ptolemaeus has the same textural appearance in the - low that we saw in the Descartes formation, that being the stuff coming from the crater Descartes running north yesterday. An entirely different appearance than the rest of the terrain in the low Sun. I think there may be some interesting comparison there.
Okay, Ken. Got that. And you're approaching 30 seconds to - the...
Okay, going to end up pan camera off here somewhere.
Roger; on my mark, you'll be 25 seconds.
Mark. And, Ken, just turn the cameras off there. Then, before you continue on with those steps, I want to say something about those procedures on down at the bottom. I'm showing 6 - 7 seconds.
Okay.
And...
Mark. I show T-stop. That's the pan camera and mapping camera.
Okay, they are Standby and Off. I'll wait 30 seconds before I take the Image Motion, Off. Hey, thank you, Stu, that was a big help.
Roger. And - I would - We're going to delete, on those procedures there, the Mapping Camera, Retract; and the Mapping Camera/Laser Altimeter Cover, Close - We're going to leave those out all night, and we'll have a - a plan tomorrow on how we're going to handle the mapping camera.
Okay. You do want the Laser, Off, though. Is that correct?
That's affirmative.
Okay, the Laser is Off now. The Mapping Camera going to Standby and the Image Motion is coming Off.
Jolly good.
And, Ken, a couple of other items. We're going to let the Bat A charge all night, so we'll just leave that as is.
Okay. Those batteries kinda put in a day's work, too, today.
Roger.
Okay, I see that we're going to have AOS on the next pass before we get - before the sleep period starts, so I think I'll wait and give you my film summary at AOS, if that's okay. It'll take me that long to sort it all out, I'm afraid.
That's okay, Ken.
All I was planning to give you was how much was left in each mag.
Say again, Ken.
All I was planning to give you, Stu was, how much is left in each magazine.
Hey, that's jolly.
And Casper, Houston.
Okay.
Okay I got a couple of things.
Go ahead.
Ken, one is we would like to delete that film status report. We would like for you to start your rest period just as soon as you can after LOS and let us pick up any talking about the film or anything like that for tomorrow.
Oh, very well. You is the boss.
And another thing, we're noticing indications here that your screens - on your O2 return hoses and also the suit circuit return valve. You might take a look at those tonight and see if they need a little cleaning.
Okay, I've been cleaning the suit circuit return screen every night and it's been getting pretty dirty, so I'll check it again today and the other hoses, I've got a - since I didn't have a screen for the inlets, I capped the inlets and just used the outlets to keep stuff from - We got so much junk here, I didn't want to get stuff inside the hoses down through the suit fans and to clog up the other filters...
Okay.
... So I put the interconnects on the inlets and just let the air blow out of the hoses and take it all in through the suit circuit return. That might give you a little higher pressure rise.
Okay, we - we concur with the configuration and but we have noticed the O2 flow creeping up slowly, indicating that it would probably need a little housecleaning on that screen.
Yes, sir; thank you very much. I'll catch that baby.
Okay.
I'll tell you, this is - A man shouldn't get paid for doing this.
Yes, it really sounds great, Ken. I think - I think the difference in the Earth crescent sure must make a difference, the way you're talking of earthshine versus the way I saw it.
Oh, it's fantastic. You can see the whole thing. It's really something. I'm going to try that - that's the reason I wanted to try and get these earthshine pictures in this time before the Earth gets any smaller. Because it really isn't nearly as dramatic tonight as it was last night, and I don 't know whether that 's the altitude or what.
But if I - let's see, we want to run these booms out and what else? Got to turn the Pan Camera, Off. Okay, if you'll give me a call on those.
Roger. I'm watching for you on the boom deploy, Ken. You got a little less than 5 minutes.
Okay, I'll - You know something else that I'm not real sure about. It sure looks to me as though the earthshine is not as bright on this mare. I guess it's just this mare that's over around Fra Mauro and so forth is just darker, and maybe it's my night adaptation that hasn't taken affect yet, but I got the distinct impression that that band's [?] a lot brighter when you get over to the western limb.
Okay, got that, Ken.
I don't think I understand that.
I tell you, I thought this was kind of appropriate here. A few minutes ago, I was playing Berlioz' Symphonie Fantastique and looking at this fantastic sight and floating along here, and it's just unbelievable it's so much fun.
Yes, it sure sounds like it; in fact, we were catching a little of your music occasionally there. Didn't sound as good as [laughter] "Riding Old Paint", but I guess it'll do.
Well, I've been listening to "Old Paint" kind of music for three days of PTC. But it was good "Old Paint," I'll have to admit. I enjoyed it.
And, Casper; Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay, would - What we'd like to do now, Ken, is go ahead and put out the booms now and, as soon as you have them out, go ahead and start the - start your P20 running right now. It looks like we might be cramped a little bit to get your uplinks in, so we want to make sure that we get - all of the up-links completed here.
Okay. In other words, you want me to cancel the earthshine ?
Yes, that's what we are saying, Ken. We're just afraid we might be cutting it kind of tight on the up-link.
All right, that's in work.
Okay.
Okay, Ken, and we can take the Pan Camera Power to Off. The lens is stowed.
Okay. Pan Camera Power is Off.
Okay.
Okay, and I guess I might as well go ahead and put the booms out, hadn't I?
Roger. We'd - we'd like to have those out and, as soon as you complete that, let's go ahead and do the - go into the P20 that we're showing at 108 plus 50. Let's don't wait for that.
Okay, I'm already going there.
Oh, okay.
I'm doing a manual roll to get over there and spin it around.
Okay, very good.
And I guess I'd like to have a SIM bay configuration - what - what you think I should have at the end of - while I get ready to go to bed, what mechanical and electrical status, and let me crosscheck it to make sure I haven't forgotten something.
Okay. We'll get that for you.
Holy smokes.
And Casper, Houston. We've got that SIM bay configuration when you're ready.
Okay, go ahead.
Okay, it is your normal sleep configuration, with a change in the first digit of the top line. We're going to change that 0 to a 1. You will now have a configuration, minus 11111; second line is normal, 01222.
Okay, minus all ones; 01222. Thank you, sir.
Roger. And we'd like...
And just looked at the inlet screens and you're right, they're - Go ahead.
Okay, I copied your - your bit on the screens and we'd like B/D Roll for sleep tonight.
Okay, you'd like to do a B/D Roll. Okay. How does the general RCS picture look?
We're in - we're in good shape, Ken. We're down a little on the Flight Plan, but we're riding 168 above the above the red line. We're - On the Flight Plan, we're down a minus 133.
Okay.
And...
Eventful afternoon.
It'll all get done. You're doing a great job, Ken.
Well, I'm just real sorry about that delay this afternoon. I wish I had known more about it. I'd already decided that if it was - if it was just oscillatory and stable, I was going to take it.
Yes; well, I tell you, the - the traces on those up to the time that you turned off the gimbal motors were just a classic divergent curve, right out of the textbook.
Yes. Yes, I couldn't believe it when I saw that thing. Thought I was back in Floody's simulator.
Yes, I think there has been a lot of people talking about SimSup today. Wish we could just forget this one.
But, hey, I got a couple other reminders here while we're chatting. I'd like to remind you on your pre-sleep checklist that we'll not bump up the cabin tonight.
Okay, thank you.
And, Ken, a couple other - or one other item here, you might get a leg up on your pre-sleep checklist and check the Optics Power, Off, at your convenience.
Okay, I'll get that stuff in just a minute.
Okay, I wasn't trying to hurry you, I just wanted to toss in a little reminder there.
Yes, thank you. I think I left it on last night.
That isn't what I was trying to say, Ken.
(Laughter) Well, you know what was going on last night and this morning. Everything you said was true. I got a garbage can in here that's bigger than me.
Roger.
And we'd like to have Omni Charlie now, Ken; and, when you get to attitude, you can reacquire with high gain.
Okay. Hey, that is better.
Hey, Stu, I kinda turned the - Hank off this morning when he tried to give us a - SIM bay status report, because it just wasn't - this morning wasn't a convenient time, but I'd be very happy to hear one of those tomorrow to see what people are finding out.
Okay. We'll give you a good one tomorrow.
Okay, Ken. Just at this appearance, it appears that everything is swinging along all right with them, but we'll have you a good scientific readout on it tomorrow.
All righty.
Hank said something about a - about the clock update. Are we going to do that tomorrow or tonight ?
That'll be done tomorrow, Ken. What we'd really like for you to do is get to - get to resting. Go into your sleep period just as soon as you can here.
Roger; I'm working on the pre-sleep checklist now.
Okay.
Casper, Houston. Would you give us the high gain just as soon as you can and go Accept.
Okay, Casper, if you'd give us Wide Beamwidth and Accept, please. We're about a minute and a half from LOS.
Okay, you've got Accept. You want Wide and Auto or what on Beam?
Roger. That's Wide and Auto, Ken.
Okay. Ken, if you can read, we'd like for you to go back to Block and - and load your Jet Monitor routine manually.
Houston, Casper.
Casper, Houston. Go ahead.
Go ahead, Casper.
Houston, Casper.
Go ahead, Casper.
Go ahead, Casper. This is Houston.
Casper, Houston. How do you read now?
Loud and clear, Don.
Okay.
Okay, I'm ready to give you Accept.
Okay. Go Accept. We're ready to up-link.
Okay, standing by. And I'd like to verify the cryo configuration with you and make sure that - I'll leave a Battery A on charge overnight. There's no lithium canister change tonight and it looks like when you get the up-link in and I give you a Verb 74, we'll be through.
I believe that's right. Stand by one.
Casper, Houston. We - we concur with Battery A, will stay on charge all night. There's no LiOH change. And on the cryo configuration, the O2 and H2 Tanks 1 and 2, Auto; Tank 3, Off.
Okay. That's just what we have.
Roger.
Casper, Houston. We need an E-Mod and you can turn in for tonight.
Okay. She's coming at you, bit by bit.
Roger.
Okay, Casper. We recommend you go B/D Roll, and that winds it up.
Yeah, thank you very much.
Okay, Don, I guess that's it. I'll see you folks tomorrow.
Okeydoke, Casper. Pleasant dreams.
You must know somebody to get a shift like this.
Say again, Casper.
You must know somebody to end up with a shift like this.
I'm afraid you're right.
Well, have lots of coffee anyhow. Good night.
Good
