Hello, Houston. Are you there today?
Hello, Casper. How did it go?
Just fine. Having a ball. Got all kinds of neat little things seen on the - this last rev. Had a chance to start watching right of the terminator and just kind of watched the scenery as it came by in AOS. And I think I did wonders for the magnification of these binoculars by cleaning the lens. I had about given up on them, decided that they weren't as good as I thought they were. Until I found out that one side had somebody's big greasy thumbprint on it. Somebody probably being me.
Roger.
And, right now, on magazine Victor, I am up to frame 37.
Roger. Victor, frame 37. And, Ken, I've got some PADs for you.
Okay. Let me get my pencil and paper.
First one's at 126:20, UV Photo PAD.
Okay, hang on a second. Let me get everything velcroed down.
Okay. Say again the time, please, Hank.
126:20.
Okay. 126:20. All righty.
Okay. T-start is 126:19:26.
Okay. 126:19:26.
And just for info. Somewhere around 126:35, we're going to get you a state vector update. The next PAD time is at 127:18.
Okay, 127:18; go ahead.
Your Gamma Ray deploy time to 15 inches is 14 seconds.
Okay, that will be 14 seconds.
And your T-start for your Pan - Mapping Camera PAD right there is 127:27:58; T-stop, 130:28:19.
Okay, 127:27:58, 130:28:19.
Okay, and the Pan Camera PAD at 128:13.
Okay, stand by a second.
Okay. What's the next one now - at 128:10, you say?
Well - Roger. 128:13 there, the Pan Camera Photo PAD.
Go ahead.
T-start is 128:19:09, 128:20:47.
Okay, 128:19:09, 128:20:47.
Okay, that's about all the PADs. You say you saw some interesting things on the back side, huh?
Yeah, the real Moon is just like photos - the more you look, the more you see. You'll be happy to know, though, that, until you get used to it, the craters on the real Moon can turn inside out just like they do on (laughter) on the photographs.
Really?
It's very frustrating.
And it's not always clear which way to turn to - to turn them over.
Roger; I understand. Hey, I got a little poop on - some of the gamma ray results, if you're interested - in case you're interested in doing some sort of global observations relative to the color or character of large areas on the Moon. The early gamma ray stuff shows that the highest readings occur in the maria areas in the west, including Nubium, Cognitum, and Procellarum. The next highest are in the central highlands from...
Okay, just a second now. The highest stuff is in the mares [sic] - to best...
Roger. In the west...
...Cognitum, Nubium, and so on.
Right. And the next highest - is in the central highlands from Midler to Alphonsus.
Okay, the - you say the highest readings - highest of - of what? Just - just the highest counts?
I guess just the highest - highest counting rates in the Gamma Spectrometer.
Okay.
Third highest is Mare Fecunditatis area. And the lowest readings occur in - on the far-side highlands.
Well, I can't - I can tell you they sure look different. They're all black over there. That's always intriguing, when you can't see something.
And, Ken, these light-colored markings you reported near King Crater - the west of King? Farouk says those are near the crater Abul Wafa. And these may be similar to the swirls of Ibn Yunus, but they are not identical. And for your information, the markings of Abul Wafa are - he uses the term antipodal or opposite to Riccioli, on the western part of your track.
(Laughter)
That means it's 180 degrees from there.
Tell him that it - it's awfully - Roger; Roger. Tell him it's awful hard to find a place where there - 180 degrees away - there won't be a crater on the Moon.
(Laughter) Roger.
He'll understand.
Casper, High Gain on the Auto - Auto on the High Gain.
Sure can.
I got one that's better for him this time, though. I'm not at all sure that those swirls that I saw north of - northwest of King are - are really - like the others or not. I - I tried to get a look at Ibn Yunus this time, and it's still a little too far to the north.
You know, Henry, one of the things that impresses me is that when you look at the mare surface in very high Sun, like I'm doing now, a lot of the very shallow craters that have just very subtle, sweeping walls and are together maybe in a chain or in groups - when you see this at high Sun, it looks exactly like a swirl pattern. If you didn't know that's what it was, you'd - you probably would wonder about it also.
Roger.
And, Hank, would you give me a warning about 126:18 ?
Will do.
Hank, looking in the bottom floor of Messier - I think it's the original Messier, the elongate one - the bottom dark material has a little ropey white material that runs down the length of the crater. And at one end, it looks like - sort of like a high-water mark. On the northern - northern and western end of that, it looks like there had been a high-water mark and then maybe this stuff had dropped down. And you see little blocks of that stuff, kind of like the whole thing had just been floating and it had just sunk a little bit.
When I look in the wall of the other one - the round one - it appears that there's a depression in the northwest side where it's kind of pushed in and things may have run down in there. I have the distinct impression that there was an original crater that is not part of the bright one that we see now that's over on the western side.
Yes, as a matter of fact, Messier A does show a secondary crater. And I have the impression that that was an old crater that kind of smoothed and darkened and looked like the rest of these older craters, and that it - Messier A then was penetrated on top of that, or at least formed subsequent to that, and it kind of broke into that wall.
Roger. The map shows an indication maybe there might be a secondary there.
Yeah, it - I had thought maybe that was a - a terrace - kind of like a slump feature, but apparently that's not the case.
I wish we had some low-Sun pictures of this crater that had the bright splash rays that I took a picture of before, that's about halfway between Messier and Censorinus. I'd swear it's on the top of a - a very shallow rise. And it - appears to me that there is a very slightly darker albedo to the material underneath it - That goes out about the same diameter as the bright rays. Now, it may be that the bright rays are giving it that characteristic just because they're - they may be tenuous enough that they don't show up by themselves, but they may be there.
There's another one a little smaller that's about halfway between the one I just described and Censorinus. And if there's one that I'd agree with Stu has black things that drape down inside it - like that might, but maybe when I get closer, it'll look like shadows. It's kind of hard to tell from here. There are an awful lot of blocks around it, it appears.
I'm looking now at this bright, depressed crater that's next to it, and I'm going to try to get a picture of that next time I get the camera available because this white stuff runs down the side of a very smooth brown crater. And there's places where you can see it's run out on the floor on the bottom, and it has a very strange appearance. It - it - The white stuff looks like it ran out and then just stopped abruptly. There's no - no toe on it or anything.
Casper, Houston. About a minute to go for your UV.
Okay. Thank you, sir.
And, Ken, you don't have to acknowledge, but John and Charlie just got back into the LM, and they're just repressurized.
Okay. I show that we're at the time to do this; however, it looks like we're not up to Descartes yet, and the camera's pointing - along towards Kant.
Okay. The Flight Plan calls for leading it about two minutes, Ken.
Okay, Hank. I got it done, but I guess I made one mistake there. I didn't get the engines off. I didn't hear any firings during the time that I was taking the pictures, but I didn't get to Free.
Roger.
And, Ken, the guys are back inside. I don't know whether you heard me a while ago or not, but EVA-1 was a total success. They had a seven hour and 11 minute EVA.
Outstanding. Did they have anything particularly significant to say or...
I didn't catch all of it, let me ask...
Did they have any surprises in the things they saw or that they didn't expect?
I guess the big thing, Ken, was they found all breccia. They found only one rock that possibly might be igneous.
Is that right? [Laughter.]
Yeah. I guess the guys are a little bit surprised by that.
Well, that ought to- that ought to call for a session with the - (laughter) yeah, yeah (laughter). Well, it's back to the drawing boards or wherever geologists go.
Hey, Ken. Ron's asking what you were wearing last night when you got cold.
I was just sleeping in my sleeping bag. I mean - All I had to do was get up and put on my - my jacket and trousers. Up to then, just getting in the sleeping bag was almost too hot.
Roger.
Okay, we're at frame 60 on magazine OO.
Okay. I've got a real good look at the Davy chain now, and they are definitely all rimless. There are some - they run kind of northeast - southwest, and there are a couple of very subtle constructional features that just look like little - little bubbles of material that run north and south. They cross the ch - crater chain, but in fact, when they cross it, it kind of breaks it up. But the - the craters in the chain themselves don't look like they have any rims at all.
And, Casper; Houston. You're coming up on about 15 seconds to T-stop for the mapping camera.
Okay. Thank you.
And the Mapping Camera is Off.
And, Ken, have you done the rest of the things there?
I'm coming up to it now. Thank you. Going to Standby, and Image Motion, Off, and it's barber pole - and gray. And here comes the gamma ray shield. Shield is Off now.
And if you'll give us Accept, we'll up-link a state vector.
Okay, you've got her.
Casper, the computer's yours.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay, and I'm taking magazine XX out of the 35, and I'm going after magazine ZZ.
Okay.
Hank, you know I mentioned to you yesterday that old GDC was really hanging in there, and I think it's drifted less today than it has before.
Hey, that's just fantastic. I never saw one in the simulator like that.
Oh, we - we asked them to put in big drifts so we wouldn't get in the habit of trusting it, you know, without keeping in mind you got to keep dressing it up. And, so help me, this thing - I'm gonna run you a drift check here, when I get through with this maneuver. But I'll bet you that it's, you know, one degree an hour in roll is about it.
Casper, Houston. Can you terminate the Bat B charge ?
Sure can. And it's off.
Okay, and we want to get Gamma Ray shield, on.
Okay, the Gamma Ray shield is coming on, now.
Casper, Omni Delta.
Oh, you're already on Omni Delta.
Boy, it sure sounds bad.
Yeah, it does. Anything else go with that, Hank?
Say again.
Does anything else go with that?
Hank, do you read me at all?
Roger, Ken; I'm reading you.
Oh, okay. I just wondered. I got a lot of noise, but I hear you loud and clear whenever you talk.
Roger. Same here.
Any word on how the LM consumables are looking, or is it too soon to tell?
I haven't heard anything yet, Ken.
Have they said anything about which - if they only run one more EVA, which one they'll run?
Stand by.
Ken, they're still looking at whether we've got enough consumables or not. However, tomorrow they're going to proceed with EVA-2.
Okay.
Casper, Houston. We've got just a few minutes here to LOS, and everything looks good from this end. We'll probably do a shift change in here while - during LOS. Stu will come on, and I'll see you in the morning. A last reminder to configure your DSE at 127:01.
Okay. At 127:01, I get a High Bit Rate and Command Reset. Okay, thanks a lot, Hank, you've been a big help today. See you in the morning.
Okay.
Okay. That now, we got to take a...
Okay. Who stole the window shade? Lock all the doors until I find the window shade. Nobody leaves the room.
Okay, the boom's going out on the Gamma Ray. It'll be for 14 seconds.
And it's Off.
Okay, Image Motion is coming On -
Mark. Barber pole.
Now it's gray. Laser Altimeter is On -
Mark.
Okay. Mapping Camera is coming On -
Mark. And this one is supposed to be at barber pole plus 4.
Barber pole, l, 2, 3, 4.
Okay, Manual and Wide, Pan and Zero. High gain.
That's [garble] out there on that boom. Let's see where it is.
Okay, the Gamma is out 15 inches.
Okay, and I've got an orbital science at Kapteyn - 127: 50.
[Garble] hold that right there [garble] map [garble] over here [garble] worry about Kapteyn.
[Garble] Kapteyn.
[Garble] right now - 32.
Now look at that - my imagination. I don't think so.
Coming over Chaplygin.
Oh, there's good old Mendeleev again. Schuster - and on Schuster, it - all this stuff just looks like it's been plastered over.
Oh, look at that pretty crater chain. Cuts right through there [garble]. Hey, that looks like that there's lava flows here.
Down along the margin in the bottom of Mendeleev, there's - some of the dark materials that are out there. They've all got this little textured slope to them. Really, I think that's about all you can say for it is that it's just textured. It's very strange.
You don't want to call them flow fronts, and yet there is definitely a margin. There are two different - distinctly different units, but whether they're just - part of it's consolidated and part of it's talus, it's very hard to discern. The central peaks and all these things - everything back here's been mantled, it looks like. Even the things that are relatively sharp. There are sharp features back here.
Quite a few very sharp things, as sharp as things in the front. Everything in here has just been mantled.
I'd say that there's nowhere near the number of craters out here that there is on the front side on the - There are nowhere near as many sharp ones. There's an awful lot of - constructional things and there's some tremendous blocks up ar - around this one back here. Just blocks all over the place, around and on the outside, and then this big mud pie that just oozes up inside. It looks like it might even carry through on the flanks.
Must be coming up on King. Sure enough.
Gonna be hard pressed to see very much of Kapteyn on this pass. No, we weren't talking about Abul Wafa either. It's north of Abul Wafa. It's more like in the area - I got to get me a new set of coordinates. And there's - that ought to be Chaplygin. No, what's the name of that thing? Lohse. How about that.
Well, Lohse has an awful lot of boulders around it, just an awful lot of big blocks - on the flanks - plus a lot of - an awful lot of big boulders inside.
The boulders around the flanks are very impressive. They've got very short - if that's an ejecta blanket, it sure is a short range thing. It's got big clods all around the outside. All up and down inside, there's big clods on top of those things. And it looks like the ground is just slumping in big concentric rings. I wish I could get closer to see that piece up there. That's really interesting. My first chance to see some - a piece of crater forming - going out. Apparently, that place just bends and goes right down in there.
Now there's something that sure looks like leach, swirls, what have you. I'm going to take a picture of that guy. It's - let's see, it's now 127:36, I mean, 11 -Where did my camera go? You go at the time I want to take a picture. Come back here, you. In there with the urine bags. What a place for a camera. 500 - Okay, that's frame 38 on magazine Victor. That's taken looking straight down at a place about - well, let's see - Could that be Abul Wafa there, maybe? [garble] find King. I've just passed King, so it must be -
Casper, Houston; standing by.
Roger, Stu. Be with you in just a minute, soon as I find out where I am here. I just took a picture; now I don't know how to tell you where I am. It's really bad when you switch from window to window, trying to figure out where some of these things go to.
Okay. Stu, I'm - I don't - I don't think we've got any - any open items.
No, we're - we're pretty clean here. I've got a correction for you as you look at the landing site again, but that can wait until after you finish with Kapteyn here and so forth.
Okay. That's probably a good idea. I've got a pretty low saturation level.- I've - I got a good look at the - both the Saxd [?] and at your bright ray on Chaplygin on this last pass. And I really don't know what to make of all that. That - you're right about the location of that bright ray on Chaplygin. So I guess you win on that one. The thing that I thought was rather intriguing about that was that there are all kinds of big blocks all around the outside of it, and all around on the inside too. And yet it looks like a great big mud pie. I really don't - don't know how to put it all together. It certainly doesn't have the characteristics of - any kind of a violently explosive thing. And I get to looking around at some of these other craters, and I was speculating on whether or not they're - the fact that everything is soft back here on the back side and how that compares to the front side. You know I guess one of the things that strikes me is that everything back here really isn't that soft. It - It's soft in that the colors are - are very uniform and the...
Could I interrupt you, Ken?
...and the - you don't have deep crevices. Go ahead.
Okay. You're probably just about in the area here for - to look at Kapteyn, you're V6.
Oh, thank you.
Looks to me like I ought to be quite a ways from Kapteyn.
Okay. You are, it's just...
I'm just now coming up...
...this is.
...on Smythii.
Roger. I - I agree with that. This - this is the time you've got listed as to start your preparation and, yeah, you've...
Okay.
You've probably got...
Thank you.
...about five or six minutes.
Yeah, I tell you. All those hours we spent looking over these things so you can recognize them without the map have sure been a big help. You can just look out there and generally know about where you are. Except there's places here on the back side where I still have to get my map out in order to sort out what I'm looking at. It does look an awful lot alike in places, yet you look down in it and I think the only reason that everything here looks alike is it's just like everything back here has been dusted with something.
Yeah, I...
Because there's still these; there are sharp features. You know there's rims of craters that are sharp and there are steep sides. And there's all kinds of things that don't go along with the concept of being weathered down and old. And with the binoculars - they really bring in an awful lot of things, and you see that there are - there's an absence of little tiny craters. And all - there's overabundance it seems like of the great big guys. On the small scale, you don't see nearly as much. It's just like everything back here had been dusted over not so long ago on a geologic scale. You do see flow fronts and all kinds of things back in there just like you do in the maria surfaces and you see little - haven't seen any ridges to speak of. But I've seen an awful lot of fro - flow fronts that run up and down things. And I don't see an awful lot of the elongate kind of terrain that we've characterized with Descartes. Except way back near the 180 point, and the rest of it is almost unique to the backside, I think.
Okay. That sounds real great, Ken. Hey, that bright ray on Chaplygin, what did you make of that dark stuff. Does that really drape over the side?
Well, I haven't been to the place where I could see that and look down on it. But during our first rev - after DO - no - yeah. The first rev after DOI, we passed right abeam of that guy and I got you a nice oblique shot of it from what looked like it was right next door. And it's got very sharp rims on it. It's - it 's got dark material around it, on the inside and the outside, and I guess it's draped. But it looked to me like it was a, you know, a very sharp feature. It had all the appearances of a - what you would think of as a fresh strata volcano would look like as a little bitty guy. And the white stuff looks like snow on it.
Very good, and thanks for taking my picture.
That was pretty spectacular, because we were about, only about 30 miles high at the time, and that makes - really did make it look like it was right next door.
I did find one place up in, I think it's in Guyot where I'd swear there's a hole in the side of the crater wall and stuff is running out of it - dark material. And maybe I'm all out to lunch on that, I - but it sure looks that way. And I got some pictures of that. But that whole area to the north and west of King has really got a lot of stuff in it that I'd never seen before, and I suspect that's because King's been so interesting, we hadn't looked at the pictures around it. And I - I've remarked several times about the swirls and things that I see back there and that they had some topographic relief yesterday, Today, I really can't tell whether they do or not, and I think that's due to the changing Sun angles. And Farouk made some comment about that being near Abul Wafa, and I'm really talking about an area that's north of Abul Wafa by about five degrees. It's about - about if you draw a line between Firsov and King, Abul Wafa's about as far south of that line as the area I'm talking about is north of it.
Okay.
And we're coming up now on old Kastner.
Casper over Kastner; that almost sounds poetic, Ken.
(Laughter) Right. I'd sing to you, too; but, well, that might be better than my music, you never know.
No, if you can't play me "Riding Old Paint," why, I don't want you singing either.
Okay. Well, have it your own way. You don't know what you're missing.
Boy, we sure picked a lousy attitude for this observation. (Laughter)...
[Garble] Ken.
I don't care what they say, hanging upside down - I don't - I don't do so well. And we're sitting here at an awfully high Sun angle, which makes the features very difficult to identify. But I have Ansgarius located, and there's La Perouse. And old La Perouse looks like a - looks like an old Langrenus with a big star in the center of it.
Boy, I'll tell you, you can hardly make out much of anything about Kapteyn, due to this high Sun.
No, I'm afraid I won't be able to say anything about Kapteyn. We're past it now and at this high Sun, you can't make out much of anything. He's a little too far from the ground track in this attitude to comfortably do when you're scrunched up in the corner of the window. And I guess I'm looking almost straight south now. Boy, there's one set of peaks that stick up down there that are really huge. Stick up over the horizon, make it look like the Andes.
Okay. We copy that, Ken.
Go, Flight [?]
Say again, please.
Okay, Ken, this is just sort of a general question about the terraces in Stone Mountain and if you get a chance, why, look down around the south end of that EVA-2 traverse, down around Station 5, and just might look in the area and see if you can give any hints on how definite those terraces are. They're going to try to establish at Station 5 on the first terrace. And if you think it looks definite enough, why, that's a no-sweat operation or how easy it looks to determine between first, second terrace, and so forth.
Okay. I kind of looked for that and - I - let me take another look specifically at that. It appeared to me that - probably on the ground you wouldn't know you're on the first terrace. But let me take another look at that - I'll check it out this time. And again - we're only guessing what - you know, trying to guess what it would look like if you indeed were that far down.
Roger. And this is sort of a no-sweat type question, Ken, so don't - don't worry too much about it, we just like to have you lamp that area again.
Okay.
Did they get a chance to drive the Rover around very much?
Ah - yeah. The Rover went real well. I think they had - got pretty much everything in on the first EVA that they'd planned on.
I'll bet those are two tired guys by now, then.
Yes. I expect they are, Ken. They got in 56 pounds of rocks today.
(Laughter) Oh - very good. We've got a place for them.
Did Hank tell you we got a couple of little Casperellos flying along with us?
No. No, I guess I don't get that one, Ken.
(Laughter) Well, the first time I noticed it was - I guess it was yesterday evening. I think maybe you were on when I saw the little particles flying along with me - right after - after the ground goes into darkness and you're still in daylight, then you can see all these things against the ground. And they all flicker and speckle and they come tumbling along. And this morning we came out, and I guess we were going minus-X, and I looked out the center hatch and here was this little thing just flying formation on me and I - in the dark, I couldn't tell how far back it was, but it was just sitting there and apparently it was tumbling because it was giving off little flashes in and out. And it didn't look like it was opening or closing or anything else, it was just sort of sitting there.
Well, that sounds like a real live Casper to me, Ken.
Well, it's so small it's probably a Casperello.
(Laughter) All right.
I'm looking at the - down at the central peak at Theophilus. And it has all of that same crosshatched appearance on the shadowed side that we saw on Silver Spur and Hadley.
Okay.
Okay. I put Power on the Pan Camera and the barber pole's back to gray.
Okay. I copy that. Standby, Stereo, and Power, and you're a minute and 20 seconds from T-start.
Okay. Passing over Kant.
I'll tell you, the old landing site stands out now. You couldn't miss that for anything. And it wasn't that obvious at the lower Sun. Unfortunately, I'm a little too far south to be able to give you a good answer on those terraces, but I'll give a hack at it.
Okay. Copy that. And you're 45 seconds from T-start.
Okay. And I'm just over here standing by.
You're ten seconds from T-start.
And she ought to be -
Operate.
Okay.
I have a barber pole with gray.
Okay. And you've got an Image Motion. You want barber pole.
Beg your pardon?
Okay, You want to take your Image Motion to barber pole.
Do you want me to go back to the observation?
Okay.
Does that take priority over the observation?
No.
Yes or no.
No.
Yes. I think that they will be able to recognize that they're on the first terrace.
Oh, I don't know, over by Cinco they're not that obvious. They are further around to the west, but I'm not sure that recognize the first terrace. They might recognize Cinco.
Okay.
Okay. I'll get the Image Motion now.
Okay. You're ten seconds to a - T-stop.
Stand by.
Roger. Standing by for T-stop.
Okay. Stand by. And we're barber pole on the Image Motion.
Okay.
Thank you, sir.
Roger.
Okay. And the lens is stowed; you can go PC off, Ken.
Okay. Pan Camera power is off.
Got you.
Boy, these - these -
And we'd like High Gain, Auto, Ken.
You'd swear that - Sure thing. You'd swear that you ought to be able to see the LM with these binoculars. I think if you knew where to look - exactly, you might be able to see it. But you couldn't hold anything in your hand any more sensitive. I'll tell you, the Cinco craters stand out very nicely and the Crest crater is very obvious from up here. But it looks like the path you've drawn that goes from Station 5 to 6 and 4 - that path looks to me like it runs down sort of a tongue of material. That you can drive up it - and that those white lines we've got drawn on Chart 9 Charlie - really aren't obvious at all. When you get over around more in the South Ray side you start to see these things, but it's just not at all obvious that they're going to see anything - down that path.
Okay.
They got a good system; they should be able to find Cinco.
Okay. Now I heard earlier that you could see Double Spot with binocs. Does that sound right, Ken?
That's affirmative.
Okay.
I'll tell you, it's - they're really neat.
Okay. And I'm sure that they passed on to you that the LM should be 200 meters northwest of Double Spot.
Yeah. I just - Every time I've gone over, I've been looking for something that I thought was probably more worthwhile than just the gee whiz of my saying I saw the LM.
Yeah. I agree with that priority.
I wish they - I really wish we'd gotten into North Ray - maybe they'll still get a chance, because it looks to me like a - that's a pretty interesting path up there. Interesting from the fact that it looks like it's constructional - the ridge that runs up to North Ray crater.
You know that central peak that we've all been looking at in Albategnius and thinking it was so big? It can't be so terribly big because - at least, it can't be terribly tall because it is just now sticking its nose up in the daylight. And the terminator passed here a long time ago.
Okay. Good observation, Ken.
Boy, that straight wall really shows up from here. Just so they know that's a pretty interesting thing. It's interesting enough to rate number 36.
Okay. And I guess you're rocking on, ready for your terminator photos here of Guericke.
Yes. I'm sitting waiting to get a little closer to them. I got Lassell, Albategnius B all lined up and boresighted.
Golly.
There's a lot more of these sharp depressions. I don't know whether to call them grabens or what, but these - these little sharp lines that run across - there's a lot more of them than I'd guessed you'd find.
I suspect that they are showing...
And there's Lassell C.
...up now in the low Sun angle?
Yes They really stand out in low Sun. One of the things - I'm looking at one right here that's next to Lassell C. I'm going to start my strip and talk a little while I'm doing it. And that's at a - one that's just to the north of Lassell C in that highlands clump that's next to it there. And - it looks like in the low Sun, on the outside of it, you see all kinds of craters. You know, the typical low Sun angle pictures of crater patterns. Oh, down in the floor of this thing it's just as smooth as a whistle. Like someone had drug a - something heavy through there and just made a deep impression.
Okay. Got you.
You know it's not real obvious whether I see the end point of that strip. The thing we've drawn I think I see - but it looks like an awful lot of other craters in this low Sun. We'll have to wait until a higher Sun to see if it really is different.
Okay.
Okay. Magazine SS is now reading 47.
Forty-seven on SS.
Okay. It's time for a little Gamma Ray Deploy.
Roger.
Mark. It's coming out.
Okay. We got your Mark.
Okay. I'm - I'll turn it off. Well - it looked to me like in 12 seconds and I still had a barber pole. Let's say I retract it and try again.
Oh, wait a minute. That thing was already 15 inches out. That's what it is. Okay.
All right.
Am I correct?
That's correct, Ken.
Okay. I just - my tape in this dim light, I had the lights turned down, I didn't see the tape until it was already out.
That sort of makes it Sim Bay 5 - Casper 0.
And, Ken. Before you put your Flight Plan away there to exercise, I'd like to remind you of something here.
All righty. Go ahead.
Okay. If you want to turn over to 129:25, there abouts.
Got it.
Okay. You'll see the - the write-in change there that may look funny to you, but we really want those steps done. And what we're doing is turning the Image Motion Off for that pass and that's why it's a little out of the ordinary.
Roger. I understand. This is - the purpose of this was so that they can get a calibration on just how much motion comes with that. They can tell where the zero point and smear comes on the film. Is that correct? That's just a gee-whiz thing.
Okay, Ken.
The information is gee whiz to me; I guess it's important to the people who have to make maps out of the stuff.
Roger.
Okay. And anything else before I do myself in?
No. About the only other thing I've got, Ken, is your - your temperature for the sleep period. I guess there are a couple of things we could do, like we could leave some power on to increase the load, or we could try to move the Temp In valve or we could - I guess you don't have any -
I'm sorry. I wasn't meaning to be complaining. I was merely wanting to record a remark that there was a significant change in the cabin. Sometime starting yesterday, sometime, and I don't know when - compared to what we had had. And that was not something that I was asking for relief on. It's very comfortable.
Okay. Very good.
Sorry if somebody put any time on it.
No. It's no problem and...
No, I just...
...was just glad you're happy.
I thought it was kind of interesting. Yeah, I thought it was kind of interesting and I don't know whether it's because I'm in a 60-mile orbit or whether it's because there is only one guy in here adding heat to the atmosphere. I guess we'll decide that when John and Charlie climb in.
One explanation is that you lost two roommates; but, also, my cabin ran what I thought a little chilly, and do you notice it getting a - gets a little clammy going through dark pass?
Well, it's not doing so bad today. Yesterday, in the dark passes, all the windows were fogging up and every time I'd breath I had to go wipe the window off. Looked like I was standing in front of a pet store. And I haven't had that trouble - today at all. And it looks like it's slowly drying itself out. We had an awful lot of condensation in here - showed up during - after LOI. All down in the suit bay was a great big puddle of water, and we had not been aware of any collection of water anywhere before that. But it had obviously been there. It didn't come out of the tunnel, but it just sort of finally all condensed. And any time you go in to clean out the suit circuit return screen, why, down in the bottom of that compartment you can see that there's a - there's condensation on some of the lines and there's a little moisture in the bottom of the compartment.
Okay. We got those. And I'll not talk to you for a while here. You can have at it.
Okay. As a courtesy, I'll turn Vox off too.
Okay.
Hey, Stu.
Go ahead.
Do you folks have any - if you don't have anything more to pass up on this pass, I'll set my alarm clock here to remind me just before LOS, but I'd kind of like to take my comm carrier off during the exercise period if that wouldn't bother anybody.
No. That's - that's fine with us.
Okay. I've got my tone booster hooked up. And if you want me, send a crew alert and I'll come talk to you.
Okay. We can handle that. And looks like we have nothing else. And if you come up before LOS, fine; if not, we'll see you around.
Okay. See you in a little bit.
Okay. And if I miss you at LOS, I do want to remind you about - you've got to configure the DSE on this pass.
Roger. I've got my kitchen clock set for that.
Okay.
(Humming - "Got To Travel On")
Boy, is that water good. Umh. That's really super. That's as good as a martini. Almost.
Oh, hey. There's something I can do. I'll be a regular little pig. If you've seen one pig, you've seen them all.
(Music - "Pink Panther Theme")
(Humming)
(Humming; snapping fingers)
(Humming)
Okay, Mapping Camera to Off [garble]. Thirty seconds, go back On.
Asked them not to write two things on the same line.
There's barber pole end 1, 2, 3, 4. Comes Off. Now we [garble] 30 seconds.
(Humming)
Okay, now I'm on the Standby. Image Motion comes Off.
It's Off, and we're going back to fine on the camera.
Okay, Pink Panther, you'll have to wait.
Let's see. Set the [garble] Manual and Wide, plus ten and zero. Get my binoculars, my camera, trusty long magazine [garble]. No, I haven't got that many.
A fourth of the frames to go. Adjust [garble]
Okay, I guess it'd be about 5.6 and a 1/125 coming here.
Well, for about six or seven minutes - Well, here we go again. And this is Mandel'shtam I'm coming up over. I'm starting to recognize these little guys, end let's see if we can get back down into that area that was interesting in the crater floor. Well, start [garble]. Well, this isn't a good time to look at that; it's a good time to look at the - at the subtle characteristics of this highlands material out here. What are the general characteristics of the highlands as seen [garble] the floor? Well, in Mandel'shtam around this central crater, the center one, it looks to me like there are at least two different types of material. There is the type of material that surrounds it that looks very, very hummocky and all filled with lots of - of craters, but they're all rounded craters, no sharp rims. I guess that means they're all rimless, really. And outside of that is an area with a - with a lower concentration of large craters - and maybe a little higher concentration of small craters. And on one piece of it, it's obvious that there's a flow that demarcates the difference between them.
But there are places where this flow appears to have nice margins, and then there's other places where it gets covered over by things that are not so obvious. The flow front comes out the - it overlaps itself in places, and tucks underneath and disappears, then comes out the other side. And over here a little farther, it looks more like a wrinkle ridge - from the way it stands up.
I'm looking at the central peak in one of the subsidiary craters - far one on Mandel'shtam. And it again shows very nice stratification just like all the other places we've seen on the Moon - stratification which more than likely does not exist, just because it seems to be everywhere. Everywhere you look, you have the impression of - of lineaments. And they're generally in a crosshatched patched pattern. They go in all kinds of directions. Looking down at some very smooth places, there's places in here that are very subtly separated. They're very smooth, and then there are - there are places that are pockmarked, and they look like Cayley. And the parts that look like Cayley look like the same Cayley that you see on the front side. The smoother stuff is lighter, and I'm trying to pick out what it is that makes the difference. I think the difference is what I think looks like Cayley and what doesn't is more than likely just the absence of many sharp small craters in the lighter material.
There are places where it looks like it's been overlain by something, and it has the same appearance as the ray patterns do - the ray structures. And now I'm looking at a real old subdued crater; I'll have to look at my map here to see which one this is. You can just make out the outer basin on it, and I think at low Sun, it'll probably stand out. It's just to the - just to the east of Mandel'shtam - correction, just to the west. Now, there's a faint little interesting feature. I'm looking at a ridge - with its scarp going into downdrop to the - to the east - correction, to the west, between two craters. It comes along, and it becomes a little scarp, and now the scarp completely goes south and drops down to the - to the west. They both lead into a crater. It's - These little features show up all over this area. They look like the things on the mare, except they don't seem to have nearly as much pattern to them. The color of the Moon back here, by the way, is changing now. It now appears to be gray to me rather than - than the brown that we were looking at the first day. That can partly be due to the fact that I'm looking through a different window, which may have different transmissions, and partly it could be caused by the Sun angle changes. I'm just not at all confident, but I know - it's hard - Here again, I can't get any direct Sun on my chart to compare it with, but it has more of a grayish tint now. Well, 17 still lines up, but it looks to me like 19 is a closer match today; 7 is too gray, 8's too gray, 9 is a pretty good match.
Well, I don't have any direct sunlight on my wheel. It may be off at - Let's see if I can get some direct sunlight on it through this other window now. Looks like somewhere around 8; maybe a - 7 or 8. It doesn't match any of these things. It's always off a little bit. Everything you have up here. It's very frustrating. You'd think it ought to agree, but it doesn't. It's like a lot of tests; you can't tell when you're on, you can only tell when you're off. It looks like it might go somewhere between 8 and 9 when I hold the lighting card in the - in the shadow of the spacecraft. It's somewhere between 8 and 9, and I get the impression - I'm gonna try the tans and see how they do. Well, they don't do so badly either; it's 14 - nope, that far off. And the one we picked yesterday was 17. That was in the direct Sun, and that's - I think that makes a difference. I think these colors lose their - some of their vividness when they get in bright sunlight. Okay. We're now coming up - Let's see, time for a camera change to -
1/250,f/5.6.
And where should I be?
It's kind of frustrating out this window that features the size of Mendeleev at attitudes we're flying just - just aren't good for viewing. When we had that north oblique and the forward oblique, you could really see what you were doing, and it was nice. Here I am coming over Mendeleev, and only because you know where you are in the sky does it become a meaningful thing. I actually prefer looking out of - out of Window 3, even though it isn't looking straight down so much. It's very difficult to tell which way the groundtrack is going at times. I'm now looking at the highlands material to the west of Mendeleev and Hartmann and Green. And one of the first things that you can say is there are no of these elongate kind of craters. Now there are some crater chains, but the elongate things are not there. Everything is generally the same color here. Very, very little color difference, although there's some very light material that you'd call white. But most everything has the appearance of just having been covered over. When I look at it through the binoculars in this area, the - this material is - does not seem to have that many craters and has this - this batched pattern everywhere - on the inside of crater walls, on the flat floors and everywhere I look. It's the same thing down low. There are relatively few bright halo craters. Most of the craters are - even craters that have rims - are indeed rather subdued. They just don't show up very well. Now, there's a nice scarp running - concentric with nothing that I can see. I took a picture of it; you'd never find it on the map. It's just a - it's just an interesting little thing that happens to be down there.
You can see subtle expressions of it running along for a while, then it goes away. Okay. If I look way up to the north, that must be - oh, with that stuff in it. I think one of those beauties up there has got a big splash on the side of it. We're coming up on King and Ostwald. And the terrain around here doesn't look that different. You could really say all this stuff was covered with snow, and that would - that would be a very reasonable explanation for the - for the way it looks.
I think that's exactly what it all looks like.
And the third one; there's King and then one, two, three craters up to the north - It looks to me like this stuff along the - the - the easternmost of these two tails that come north out of King, which is - has the whitest material around here, that - that stuff that runs along a - a topographic rise, looks like a plateau, and then this plateau sort of drops off as it goes over. There's a couple of craters - I just get the general impression that these things drop off as they go along. Everything around King has these same lineations running - right now they're running generally - generally radial to King.
All these black things that are in there - along those little white peaks in the northern end of King - are places where there's boulders and things that are sticking out of the sides - the same as we see in central peaks almost everywhere else, except here there seem more of them along the walls. On the western wall, those just seem to be places where the residual material is hanging out, sticking together consolidated. I think this is all slumping. You can see places where there's a - looks like a piece is pulled out of the side, and there's a lot of slump down below it. Then there's big pieces that have seemingly resisted. Then on the - out on the western rim, there's one of these real white spots, just a different color. The floor, is not that must different in texture, but it's just a real different color. As I look north up along those rays, it doesn't look any different. You don't get any more impression of anything than you do by looking at the photographs we have. Now the thing that I do see as I look to the north-northwest of King is that, going up towards Sir Don [?] Rille, we see a - another large crater here, very subdued, and - all along its walls are these places where it looks like something is draped; and I'm trying to figure out now whether that's slumped down or splashed up. I can see the margin - and I just can't tell which way it's going. Apparently, those are slumps coming down. That seems to fill all of those craters along there, and - and the demarcation without the binoculars makes it look like they're sliding up the sides of - of the craters, and with the binoculars, it looks like maybe they're - coming down the sides. And you see a lot of these very light, bright patches, and you don't see that in the highlands material anywhere else. And now I'm looking at these things that look like exactly swirls. And the material has - from this angle, it looks like nothing but coloration; no other differences whatsoever. Except there are places where I know some of these swirls do indeed have - have topographic expression; I can see that. But then there's other places where it looks like the swirl is just sort of a coloration that's on the surface. The general texture of this material hasn't changed any, the albedo hasn't changed a great deal, but the color has kind of darkened a bit.
There's the old Earth, and why don't I have a signal? In Wide, Manual, High Gain, Power Amps on...
Casper, Houston. Standing by.
There they come. I think they've been sleeping. Come in, Earth.
There we - Oh, well. I almost had a lock on that thing.
Okay, Casper; Houston. Standing by.
Hello there.
Greetings. You're loud and clear.
Yeah, so are you. Looks like we had a little extra trouble locking up that time.
That was - we reacquired with a ground station here. It was a - a switch here, Ken. And there's nothing wrong with the good ship Casper.
Oh, yeah. I was going to chastise you guys for that. I just happened to notice. I was looking out and I noticed that the Earth was quite a ways above the horizon, and I looked down and there wasn't any signal strength. I was - I got to wondering about it. I don't think you guys are sanforized; you're getting smaller.
Hey, if you've got a couple of minutes, at your convenience, I'll give you a - a tentative master plan.
Okay. Let me put some of my toys in a nice resting place, and I'll be with you.
Okay. This is not a Flight Plan update, Ken. This is just going to be a general summary of what we 're looking at.
Roger.
Let me get this thing set up for the photo pass, and then I'll - I'll be ahead, and then we'll go into that.
Roger. It's at your convenience.
Got to switch mags here.
Hey, Stu, I notice that this thing keys an awful lot at any sharp sound in the cockpit. If this is getting annoying, I'll turn the Vox level down.
Haven't been hearing a thing right then, Ken.
Okay. Fine.
Okay. All set.
Okay. I'll have a few - about three Flight Plan updates for you, and when we get through, when you get a chance. But here's the way it - the Plan is looking. We'll have no PC-2 or shaping burn. We'll do PC-1 about three revs prior to LM lift-off, which according to - which will be about four hours later than the Flight Plan shows. We're showing lift-off of the LM for about 175:44. And in the place of the nominal PC-1 time, we'll be doing the bistatic radar. The - they will have the third EVA. It'll be - they're shooting for about five hours on it. And, of course, the prime objective is - is North Ray. EVA-3 and the rendezvous will be done on the same day, and to hold down the crew time, it'll - that'll make it about an 18-hour day. We'll hold onto the LM through the rest period and jettison the LM the next day. From your standpoint, everything will be fairly nominal, up until about lift-off minus six hours. It'll be pretty close to about what we're showing in the Flight Plan now. Of course, we'll have some updates as they - they work the - the scientific standpoint of it. Oh, and TEI will be approximately a day early.
A day early?
That's affirmative.
All right. Any particular reason? I mean - I would - I would have guessed some of the other things, but not that.
Ken, well, I guess it's - it goes down into the bit with we've skipped the PC-2. Why, considering the SIM Bay and the objectives left, everything - everybody's going to be happy and decide to ship you out a - around a day early.
Okay. Where's - we're going to launch the satellite from the orbit we're in? Is that the idea?
Yeah, it'll - it'll be the orbit after PC-1, and there's no sweat on the lifetime, Ken. They - they're guaranteeing a lifetime of at least a year and looking to have a fairly reasonable perigee after - even after a year, from - from the orbit after PC-1.
Okay.
And that's - that's about it. Of course, all the specifics will be coming up to you, and I have three Flight Plan updates just any time you're ready. No sweat.
Okay. I'll go ahead and copy.
Okay. The first one will be at 130 hours 31 minutes.
Go ahead.
Okay. We want to delete the "Mapping Camera, Retract." And at 130:34 delete the "Mapping Camera/Laser Altimeter Cover, Close."
Okay. Delete the "Mapping Camera Retract," and the "Cover Close."
Okay. And at 131:19.
All right.
Okay. Your speed on your camera is changed to 1/250.
Okay. That's 1/250.
Okay. And just to ease your mind on that other note - Flight Plan note - we're gonna - The mapping camera will be left out during your dump and the sleep period.
Okay.
Okay. And 132 hours.
And, Ken, I've got one more at 132.
Okay. You - you dropped out there. I didn't get anything in. You just went silent. I didn't hear anything after - Oh, let's see, where's the last thing I got from you? I got the configuration change in the camera and the understanding that the mapping camera was going to be left out all night. And that's all I heard.
Oh, okay. It'll also be out during your dump. I just wanted to...
Yeah.
...verify with you that that was true. Okay and...
Yeah, I got that.
All righty. And you...
Roger.
...got the shutter speed change at 131:19. And my next change is at 132:00 when you're...
Yes sir.
...when you're ready to copy.
Okay. I'm ready.
Okay. We want to add H2 Tanks 1 and 2 Heaters, Auto. H2 Fans 1, 2, 3, Off.
Okay. H2 Tank 1 and 2, Auto, and all three Fans Off at 132 hours.
Okay. That's the end of the update.
And, Ken, I've got a few questions about the flow of Mandel'shtam when you've a chance you want to talk about it.
Okay. Let's see. I got a few minutes. Why don't we talk right now?
Okay. I'll just run through - There are four questions. Why don't I just give them all to you, and then I can go back over them, but we'd like to know in what part of the floor is the flow. We'd like to know how large it is. We'd like to know the direction of flow. All on-the-spot observation of whether or not you think it's a landslide or a lava flow.
Okay. I covered some of that again on this last pass, I guess. Let me - Say those questions again.
Okay. In what part...
You [garble] want me to write a few key words down.
Okay. In what of the floor is the flow?
Okay.
Want to know how large it is.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay'. And what is the direction of flow?
Okay. And your last question was origin?
Roger.
Okay. Let me see if I can get - get a map here that I can give you some reference on. The kind of flow that I'm talking about back there is - is sort of like the kind of flow from - that your - that you - see in the mare materials. It's - it's not a big thing [garble] that you can trace back like you can some of these other things we've seen. it's just sort of appears as a flow front. It's not sure where it comes from, and you can see it run down in the craters and around them. And, from that - I made a little more objective analysis of this stuff that you see on this back - this last pass when we came across on what we call the - the Far Side Highlands. And it's my general impression that these - these flows - maybe that - maybe I'm using the wrong term - they look like flows. They have all the characteristics of a flow front, and yet there's places where they go along, and you'll see it with the scarp going down to the east, and then all of a sudden it'll get a little confused and then the scarp will be showing up going to the west. And then you'll see places where - there's one place in Mandel'shtam - I think we have a picture of it - where this - this scarp, that looks like a flow front, curves in an arc to the right, and it's got material that comes from behind it. Then all of a sudden it sort of turns back in underneath itself and then just disappears. And there's - there's no flow front where it disappears underneath. It's - it's just a - it's a very strange thing. We've seen that in several other places. Some were appearances in the photograph that Farouk and I were looking at of Baldenburger [sic]. Now, that's on a much larger scale of course. But it's the same kind of problem, where you see a unit which is obviously overlaying another. And yet it's overlaying itself by one that the original unit happens to overlay. It's like a - a chain where each - each ring overlaps the other one in a closed circle. And it is very confusing from that point. And let me look at my map here and see if I can give you some - some better handles. I think I took some pictures back there to mark it.
Okay, Stu. Looks like the map is no help, and the - the only picture we have onboard that I can talk about - is on - in the visual photo book. It's V1A. And if you look at the ren - you don't - remember Mandel'shtam has the - the big central crater and then two little craters, or it kind of looks like concentric craters with a bull's-eye, and the flows that I was looking at were almost on the - I guess-you can say they're on the northern side of the big crater. And they run down into several of the smaller craters up there. And the general direction was with the flow scarp as I'm calling it. Facing the - facing to the west, it runs into the crater on the northern side. That's - after looking at more and more of this highlands back here, I'm beginning to believe that these are not actually flow fronts at all; they just happen to look like that if you look at them in short sections, but I think there must be some other process that's affecting all this.
Okay.
I'm afraid that - that on the specific kind of questions you asked, in this case, I'm - I'm really kind of out to lunch. I - I can't make specific things when you say how large. There - the length of these things that I can trace are the same size as - as the crater that I was - looking at. And I guess that must not be that central one, but one of the adjacent ones - one of the ones on the north. But they're - they're quite long, and they're all over the area. They're in craters; they're outside of them; they're on the floors. You see these things just about everywhere you look back there. They're large, and they're just - it sort of defies my imagination. I see nothing that looks like sources anywhere.
Okay. We got that.
I guess that's a - I guess that's a brief summary to say that I really am not as smart as I wish I was.
That sounded pretty good to me, Ken. And we'd like High Gain to Auto.
Okay. There's Auto. Now. Gamma Ray, Shield Off. Ah ha. And it's Off.
Okay.
And I'm gonna start in on my strip here.
And just for planning purposes, in the future, I - I know we got those templates out, and when we looked at all those templates on the charts, we said, gosh, you know, you must be able to see a lot more from the window. But, photo targets like this one are in the extreme of what you can reach from our windows. I guess they really didn't - they didn't exaggerate those things too much at all. You can see more if you put your face right against it, but by the time you get a camera in there, your field of view that you can control the camera in is greatly reduced.
Okay. Is it true of the - of the hatch window also, Ken? You know that's the one we talked about that looks like - you're bound to be able to see more than...
Yeah. It's not as true there, because you have - yeah, you can - you can certainly see more, and you can - you can get around there with a camera a lot better than you can at these sides. You - you run into - You bang your head against R-12, then you push it into the Comm panel, and - there's always something where you want to put your head.
Hey. I agree to that. I've been in that same corner with the 500[mm].
(Laughter) Yeah, well one of those folded guys would be very nice.
Okay.
Okay. We've started our photo strip.
Okay.
Okay. That's a good place to quit. And that's frame 61 of magazine Bopa Bopa.
Okay. Frame 61.
Yes, sir.
And the Image Motion is stepped up the barber pole and back to Off.
Okay.
And the Gamma Ray Shield is back on.
Okay.
I tell you, Stu, that Straight Wall really is a hummer out there.
Sounds awful beautiful, Ken.
Yeah, with all the things that are on the front side, I'll have to admit that in many respects -- it 's - it 's more interesting. I'm not sure there's any more to be seen or learned here, but it's - there's enough extra variety that it's easy to - to recognize something that's different. You don't have to look so hard to see what's the same. When I look down at the - at the individual sections of material, I look at this Cayley down here, - oh, what am I looking at - Ptolemaeus and Alphonsus, the floors that - that Cayley fill. It looks just on the detail scale as the stuff on the back side does. And the - the rims around the craters like Alphonsus - that material looks just like the stuff on the back side. When you get down to the detail level, it all has the same features. The only thing that I see that's - that's quite a bit different is I don't see any of these rille systems on the back side anywhere.
Okay. Maybe we can talk to FIDO and work in something where you can just orbit the front side.
(Laughter) Yeah, I'll get in one of those synchronous kinds.
I'm looking out here now at the area just to west of the south of Lassell E on a little highlands there. And if you go straight south from Lassell, there's a little tip of highlands material that runs out to the west. Then it stops, and if you take from there and draw a line, I would guess it's almost due west. It looks like there's two entirely different materials there. Like you built it out of two fabrics and then put it down. The one to the north is darker than the one to the south. It's - it's split by a very straight line, and there's a - a very distinct difference in the - in the albedo or the shade of gray that the mare has.
Okay. - [garble].
And, Ken, you're under one minute to Mapping Camera, Off. You got about 45 seconds.
All right, sir. Thank you.
And you're ten seconds T-stop.
Thank you. And it's stopped.
Roger.
M in Standby.
Okay.
And the laser's off [garble].
Mark.
Okay.
Okay. The Alpha/X-Ray Cover is coming Closed.
Mark.
Barber pole and gray.
Okay.
Okay. We've got...
Okay, I guess I'll - I'll torque these, although it seems like a shame.
Yeah. We - we see them, and - go ahead and torque them. Boy, that beauty's nice.
Yeah, it really is.
Hey, Stu. No one ever said anything about the - the P23s. Anyone in the back room know how the [garble] came out? What kind of an altitude we ended up with?
Yeah, Ken, I've - we've got that. I'd looked at it there a couple of days ago. A little blurb there I'd written in. It said the mark data was real consistent, and I think it was something like 33 kilometers, but I'm - let - let me check that out for you.
Okay, I was just curious. I - I didn't feel like I had as much trouble with that horizon as I anticipated. As far as knowing where I ought to be, my problem was getting the spacecraft there.
Ken, I remember your comment here yesterday about the sextant and the telescope really looking swinging. Have you had any change in that at all, and in particular, the - how about the reticule on your - on your sextant? How does that look to you, and how did the lunar surface look through the sextant? These are just all my own personal questions, so don't - don't take much time on them.
All right, Jay. Yes, I - no, as a matter of fact, at one time I looked in there and saw the sextant was really blurred and I thought, "Oh, here we go. just what you'd said." And I got to looking around, and I found that these eyepieces vibrate on there quite badly. And I guess I shouldn't use the word vibrate, then, but they unscrew, and I've got a lot of tape wrapped around them now to keep them on. And they change focus. And I had to refocus the thing. And once I got it focused, it's - if I turn the reticule lights up to full intensity, why, I get a little bit of a smear. But not much at all, and when I look at the images on the ground like in the - tracking - I took a look during the practice tracking period - and, boy, I tell you, that was just as nice. The only problem was, when you're down low and looking through that 28th power, your field of view is so small you wouldn't recognize your own house if you flew over it.
Roger. Copy.
I still - I'm still not having as much success - with the telescope as I - as I ought to, and I'm - I'm trying to psych it out. I was going to take a look here a couple of times. I'm not aware of any light in the telescope right now, but you just can't see any stars in there. And I'm wondering if the Earth is enough still that it - it might blank them out. Because they are obviously there when I look out the window. But they become a great deal more obvious once I get on the back side, or in that double umbra. And I thought I'd try to make a note to check that in the telescope on this pass. I know when the LM was on the nose, that really made a big difference, because all I could see was LM.
Okay. I...
[Garble] reflection off the LM.
Okay, I graded that. You get a very good picture of the LM quad.
Yeah, I can see the quad in [sic - and?] the radar. I can tell you all about them.
Roger.
But even in earthshine it was - it was - you could - you could pick out all the features in earthshine. It was really amazing. And was just - just - just beautiful. And last night or whenever it was when we were playing around there, why, if I had had a little more confidence in the depth perception, we could have done our station-keeping without any lights and earthshine. You get - once you leave earthshine, though, you really need that old docking light. And the docking light, much to my surprise, isn't - isn't good for much outside of 500 feet. And, at 500 feet, if you ever lost sight of the target, you probably wouldn't pick it up again. When you get into 300 feet, then - then it holds the target - with sufficient illumination to see things and tell relative motion. I didn't turn all the cockpit lights down too dim, because the LM strobe is such a beauty. And finally we turned the strobe off just to save power and time on it. And we had no problem at all, but the - I had to help the LM guys how bright that thing was in their face, but I had the impression it wasn't so terribly bright.
Okay. Thank you.
Got another little piece of amazement here that you'll - you might appreciate. It took me by surprise. I did a - I started out and I checked the GDC drifts when - right after we got on our way. And they were running pretty high; and they were about seven degrees an hour if I remember right. I've got them written down somewhere. I won't look for them now. Maybe it was like six degrees, but they were pretty healthy drifts. And this was some time after I got - I checked one set of BMAGS before TLI and one after. And I did a GDC align at 127 hours. I just did another one; this is 100 and - 130:45. So that's three hours and 45 minutes, and the two are off by two degrees in roll, one degree in pitch, three degrees in yaw. And that's the way this thing's been operating for the last couple of days. And I - I don't know what finally got it to square itself away. At the time the platform went belly-up there, why, they were about 12 degrees apart, and they had been aligned probably no more than a couple of hours before that. And I noticed the following day - I started watching the GDC, and I noticed I didn't have to align it very often. And it just seems like the more it runs, the better it gets.
Hey, that sounds jolly good, Ken. I - I had suspected that you've been keeping a rather close eye on the GDC.
(Laughter) Well, I tell you, every time I zero in on the optics, I make about 50 checks of all the switches in here.
Roger.
That'll keep your attention.
Roger. I suspect that the GDC stays pretty well-aligned, too.
Maybe it knows something that I don't.
Roger.
Something else that surprised me, Stu. Maybe you remember. I can see a - a definite horizon for the Moon within a minute or so of AO - LOS. And I - I guess that's the zodiacal light and the solar corona showing up there, but I really didn't anticipate seeing that nice dark disk. And there's a - it's just like seeing the Earth horizon on a dark night. It 's really there.
Okay. Thanks, Ken. We got that.
Do you remember seeing that much horizon?
No, sure didn't, Ken. But I had - I had very few passes where the orientation was where I could - could see that.
Yeah , I understand.
And, Ken, we - re in about a minute and a half to LOS.
Okay.
And I want to - to remind you to configure the DSE here on - on this.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Jolly good. We'll see you in a little bit.
All righty. Have an extra cup of coffee. And, if you don't drink the stuff, I need some.
Okay. I'm not sure I can even drink coffee for you, Ken. How about a cup of chocolate?
(Laughter) Well, we probably both want the same thing right about now.
Roger.
Okay, waste water dump. The potable is full; the waste is about half full - 40 percent. I think - eight minutes. I'll set the clock for six.
There it goes. Gurgle, gurgle, gurgle.
Ugh. Come open, you son of a gun.
Oh, man. You son of a gun!
Oh, that's explains it.
It's not my imagination. Everything does float up.
(Music - continuous for approximately 22 minutes)
(Humming)
(Humming)
(Singing) Ta-ta, ta-tee-tum. Ta-ta-ta-
(Humming)
Alpha particle Cover coming Open -
Mark. Barber pole and gray.
It looks like Hiyarama [sic]. It couldn't be there. Hiyarama's way over here. It must be Schuster.
Well, there are, indeed, little particles flying along with us.
That must be Tsiolkovsky over there - the chain that runs down to it.
There's another one of those little particles.
Okay. Looking back to the - the south and east - at the central peaks of King, I would say that they do indeed have dark material and blocks all along the side, that they're equally as jagged as the ones on the other side. That is not a Sun effect. They're not shadows; they're real. Set that on about the - 11 at 250. Take one of that. Okay, frame number 39 on magazine Victor is - Okay - looking back- dark material on there.
Hello there, Stuart.
Oh, greetings, Casper.
I just took a - another look at our old friend, King, looking at him this time from the north looking south and west. And, there's no question in my mind now that there's - there definitely some dark material that's on the top of the central peaks, that's on that western side. Before, I couldn't really tell if there was or not. It looked like there was some blocks that might be casting shadows. But, looking back at it, there's something on there that at least changes the albedo and nothing else. And it's not shadow. And I got a picture here on frame Victor that ought to - hopefully will substantiate that.
Hey, that sounds...
That white valley...
...jolly good.
[Garble] Mandel'shtam, I took another - took another look at the craters we'd talked about. And, there are two places on there where I think I see these flow scarps that I was talking about. And, one of them is at - let's call it 163 degrees east and about 2 degrees south. And, you see a little blob that the artist has drawn in there, and that looks like that is part of - of what I'm looking at - that appears to me to be a - kind of like a flow field.
Okay. Got that.
And, Ken, I notice here this is supposed to be in the middle of your eat period. Are you eating?
Well, as a matter of fact, I just looked and noticed that it was an eat period. I guess I will go and do same. I got all carried away with this being the first time I've had a chance to look to the south.
Okay. When we come up down here, in about seven or eight minutes, why, we're showing this - the Pan Camera to have the Power on so we can take a look at it. We want to play a couple of little games with the V/H override switch at that time, to see if we can find one of the positions of that switch that might have a little less effect on our sensor - You know that was - that was a change and we're noticing the sensor has been detecting lower light levels than it should. So, we're going to put the switch to High Altitude for a couple of minutes and then Low Altitude for a couple of minutes, and we'll give you a call on all those.
Okay. Just tell me what you want, and I'll go down here and put my nose in the feed bucket.
Okay.
Seems like I ate just a couple of minutes ago.
Casper, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay, if you got time there in mixing up your food, we'd like to have the Pan Camera to Standby and the Power on.
Okay. Pan Camera to Standby and Power on. Omm - Om - a - Okay. And Power is on, the talkback is barber pole, and again it 's gray.
Okay, and let's go on the V/H override to High Altitude, now, Ken.
Okay. V/H, High Altitude -
Mark.
Okay.
Okay, Ken, if you'll give us Low Altitude on the V/H override.
Okay, going Low Altitude...
Mark.
Okay.
Okay, Ken. You can go to Center, Off position on the V/H override, and you can go Auto on the High Gain.
Okay, V/H override is Center, Off and High Gain is in - Auto.
Okay.
And, Ken. Just for your info, the field geology team are in the final phase of making their plans for EVA-2 tomorrow. So, if you've got any additional comments, why, better make them this - this pass because they'll have to have it all firmed up.
Oh, I think they're smarter than I am.
Well, now. Don't get too carried away up there.
[Laughter.] No, I would really - I'd really hope they make it to North Ray though. I think that's going to be different than we expected it to be.
Roger.
Okay, Ken, we are ready for Pan Camera Power to Off at this time.
Okay, Pan Camera Power is coming Off -
Mark.
Okay, we got it.
Hey, Ken. How did we make out in our discussion on North Ray low altitude there as far as being able to see the - the white albedo or not? Or, were you too far to the south?
Oh, I got ahead. It depends which rev you want to talk about. On - well, I looked at her on the first day, right after DOI, there wasn't any - there was two craters, but no rays. When I went back and looked at him on landing morning, there's a slight ray. But North Ray still doesn't stand out as being the bright guy that South Ray does.
Well, it's obvious I was talking about the - the landing day.
(Laughter) I gathered that it would be the case.
Yeah, by all means.
Right now I would agree with you on anything, Stu.
Yeah, I'll - I'll be quiet...
I'm [garble] here with my...
I'll be quiet...
...potato soup and my - Ah! Ah!
Yeah, I ought to - I'll be quiet here and let you concentrate on your eating.
Oh, man. This is gourmet style. I got - I got the Modern Jazz Quartet playing "Porgy and Bess," and I got orange/grapefruit, some of it in the bag, some of it on the bulkheads, potato soup. Man, it's real gourmet style. Even got a Beta candle.
Hey, Ken. With all of that, now while ago you talked about some Casperellos - with all that Beta Candle and all that food, you don't have any such thing as a Casperette, do you?
(Laughter) No, I'm afraid I left that at home.
(Laughter) All right.
That's about all this place is lacking, though. (Music in background)
And, Ken, just another comment to close the loop on you on that P23s - the - like I said before, the marking data was very good, and you came up with an horizon of 33 and loaded is a value of 28. And after massaging all the data decided to not change it since we've shown on the other missions that coming back - the - has a tendency to have a lower horizon. So, looks like we're just swinging with what we got there.
Okay, that's just fine.
Hey, Stu.
Yeah, go ahead.
Couldn't pass up a chance to watch the landing site one more time, and so I took a quick break from chow and went and watched it. And had a couple of questions in mind and only got two of them answered. One of them is that counting the - the layers in North and South Ray and South Ray looks different than North in that South Ray shows three distinct light and dark sequences. I suspect they're slumps, but there's at least three bands. North Ray doesn't have any of that sort of thing. It's obvious from this altitude. I took another look for their terraces and the whole area - the thing that we thought looked so distinctly different in the photographs - looked like Stone Mountain and Smoky Mountain were two different things and something came in the middle of it and - it doesn't look that way to me at all today. It looks to me like it's really all - Almost all part of the same material. And I've drawn another little mark on my - on my map. It's just about where you folks said you thought the LM was, except a little farther over to the north. It turns out that there's one little bright speckle there that doesn't look like craters. I don't see anything except the speckle.
Okay, I'm - I'm looking there. Now, go straight for north of the - of the LM and a little to the west, there's three small craters there that are covered with what looks like by ray, now. Where are you talking from that?
Okay, Ken. Did you fade out, or did you stop talking? How do you read?
Oh, hey. I - I had you off of Vox and I forgot to push the key down, I had gotten so use to it. No, I - I gave you an 80 and about - oh, you were looking in the right area. And, let me see what I can give you for coordinates on that.
How about CB 5 and 80?
Okay. We've got CB 5 and 80.
Okay, and you know I'm - I'm not overhead long enough to be sure that that's what I'm looking at, but it looked to me like it had a - a different kind of glint to it.
Okay. I'm sure they've got that.
Oh - hey. I've got one.
Well, I missed it. By the time I got the camera, it was gone. But that little - little buildup that we talked that was just to the west of Lassell, I had it spotted, and I was grabbing for the camera, and I couldn't find it again after I got back.
Okay. And, Ken, if you want to go Accept we'll uplink the jet monitor load; and, it's your choice whether you want us to initiate it or you want to initiate it.
All right, you guys can do that.
Okay, we've got - Copy that.
Okay, Ken. The computer is yours. Go to Block, and the EMP is running.
Okay. Thank you very much. You guys are really helpful.
And, Casper; Houston.
Be with you in a second.
Okay, go ahead, Stu.
Okay. We're showing the lower 14 minutes to LOS; but, we're going to lose data before that. And, we'd like to get that E-memory dump just any time you're ready. We're all configured.
You got it.
Okay.
And, Ken, on the High Gain, we'd like a Reacq. We'd like Pitch, zero; Yaw, 170.
Okay, you have Reacq; Pitch, zero; Yaw, 170.
Okay.
Okay. Ken, we're going to lose comm, with you here shortly. And, we'd like to get your onboard readouts and if you would get your book to copy, we've got a TEI-41 PAD.
Okay. Let's see. Okay, I'll give you some readouts first. Battery C is 36.7; Battery B, 36.3; Battery A, 36.8. I guess all you really needed out of that was Battery C though. Now, you'd like the pyros. Okay. They're - A is 36.7 and B is 36.7.
Okay. We've got all of those. Give us your RCS.
And, you'd like to have - you want the quantities?
That's affirmative.
Okay. On A - 63 percent. Bravo shows 62 percent.
And, Ken; let's go Auto now with the High Gain. We're going to lose you in Reacq.
Okay. You've got Auto. Charlie is 66 and Delta is 67.
Okay. We've got all of those and I'd like to give you a TEI-41 PAD.
Standing by to copy.
Okay, it's TEI-41: SPS/G&N, 38709; plus 0.72, plus 1.33; 155:06:58.45; plus 3355.2, plus 1151.0, minus 0235.0; 181, 095, 020; rest of the PAD NA. The GDC align - same as circ. Ullage, two Jets, 17 seconds. Longitude at TIG. plus 173.29, assumes no LOPC-1.
Okay. TEI-41: SPS/G&N 38709; plus 0.72, plus 1.33; 155:06:58.45; plus 3355.2, plus 1151.0, minus 0235.0; 181, 095, 020. Sirius and Rigel with the same numbers for circ; two jets, 17 seconds. Lambda plus 1732.9 and no LOPC-1.
Okay. That's a good read-back and we'd like to bid you good night and remind you that your logic power for the SIM bay is still on.
Okay. Thank you very much. I'll see you in the morning.
Okay. And we'd like to have Reacq at LOS. And that will be Pitch, zero; Yaw, 170...
Okay, I'll get it. I
Okay.
I have Pitch, zero; and 170 set in.
Okay. Get a good night's sleep.
Okay. Good night, Stu. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. You've been a big help.
We'll see you tomorrow.
Okay.
