Good morning, Casper. You stirring around yet?
Casper, Houston.
Hello, there.
Good morning. Did you have a good night?
Yes, sir.
Casper, Houston. We show you in CMC, Free.
Thank you.
Okay, the Gamma Ray Shield is Off.
Roger.
And the Pan Camera Power is coming on -
Mark.
Roger.
Are you ready for a status report?
Go ahead.
Okay, Bravo 1, 15051; Bravo 3, 6½; Bravo 4, negative. On the chow. On Meal A, had scrambled eggs, orange juice with potassium. On Meal B, had coffee, orange drink with potassium, and a beef steak. Meal C, delete the frankfurters. Add turkey and gravy and coffee.
Okay, we got it. And, Ken, your consumables - we're just about back on the nominal for the cryo, and the RCS is 150 pounds above the redline.
Okay. That's sort of holding its own, then, isn't it?
Roger. And if you'll give us Accept, we'll get your state vector up.
You've got it.
And Casper, we're clear for a Power, Off, on the Pan Camera.
Okay. Power is coming Off -
Mark.
Ken, I've got some words on the SIM bay status, if you want to listen.
Okay. Fire away.
Okay, mapping camera is working real well, except for that extension problem. We have a margin of 203 frames. The laser altimeter is still degrading. We're down to where we're getting about 70 per cent of the good altitudes. Thirty per cent of the time, it's fouling up. The pan camera is overexposing the film, but we can process a great deal of that out. However, we will lose some resolution. We're 58 frames ahead on that. The mass spec is perking along real good, and no immediate evidence of purges or water drops in the data. And we got that retraction problem that you're aware of, where we will leave it out except for burns. And the gamma ray spectrometer is doing excellent work. We've got good peaks for thorium, silicon, and potassium. And the X-ray and alpha particle are nominal.
Okay.
And the computer is yours.
Thanks.
And Casper, Houston. I've got some Flight Plan changes for you.
Okay, go ahead.
Okay, the first one is at 142 hours.
All right; go ahead.
Delete the "Charge Battery A."
Okay, that's deleted.
Okay, at 143:15.
Go.
Delete the Verb 48 load.
Okay, Verb 48 is deleted at 143:15.
Okay. At the same time, 143:15, we want to add, "P20, option 5; minus-X forward trim attitude; maneuver completion time of 143:32. Your Noun 79 is 3 degrees. Set high gain."
Okay, at 143:15, it'll be option 5, minus-X SIM bay; Noun 79, 3 degrees; 143:32 is the maneuver completion time; and I would guess the High Gain ought to be about 01, 170.
That's affirmative. And immediately following that, we want to go to the CSM Experiment/EVA Checklist, Gum Nebula photo sequence B, page X/2-8.
Okay. And then we do - get ready for the Gum Nebula sequence B on page X/2-8.
That's affirmative. This will give you some warning here because, after you eat there, there's probably not enough time to get that before you have to start it. Okay, at 143:35...
Okay, yep.
acquire MSFN with the - the Manual, Wide, zero and 170. Just change it to the angles you've got. Normal acquisition, S-Band, greater than ½ scale, you know, then Reacq now.
Roger.
Okay, at 144:15...
Okay.
Go to P00. Then Verb 49 maneuver to DSM, that's Deep-Space Measurement/Gum Nebula point 2 attitude. And the attitude is 305, 136, 298. And the maneuver completion time is 144:25.
Okay, at 144:10, I want to go to P00, Verb 49 to DSM/Gum Nebula point 2. The attitude, 305, 136, and 298. Maneuver completion times 144:25.
Roger. And that was to be accomplished at 144:15, and at 144:30...
Yes, sir.
it calls for a P52. They want to move that back to 144:26.
Okay. You want to do the P52 as soon as the maneuver is completed, about 144:26.
That's affirmative. Right in - as soon as you get in the dark. And could you give us the Gamma Ray, Shield on now.
Okay, the Shield is on.
And High Gain to Auto.
You have it.
Okay. At 144:30, it's time to start the deep space measurements, the Gum Nebula, and at 144:31, Gum Nebula photo sequence B, page X/2-8.
Okay. And how long does that thing take, Hank? It's about a...
Okay. The Gum Nebula - I mean...
Deep-Space Measurements.
The deep-space measurements start at 144:30. The Gum Nebula photo sequence - you - If you want to build you a little tape there, they should run from about 144:36 to 144:50.
Okay. That's 144:36 to 144:50.
Roger. That's when the photos are going...
Okay, and that's in the deep-space-measurement business, I don't have to do anything...
you're getting deep-space measurements all the time that's going.
That is affirmative, Ken.
Roger. I don't have to do anything during that time, though. Is that correct? Okay.
And at 144:35, of course, delete that Verb 49 maneuver.
Roger.
And Ken, that gets us through the next rev. I've got a few more changes, but if you like, we can wait until the following rev to read them off.
You're coming up...
Okay. I'll do the - the stuff that comes up right at...
on Gegenschein here now.
Okay, the stuff I have to do between the time I have LOS and the time I pick you up again is still good. So why don't we just put it off, and let me get going on this Gegenschein?
Okay.
Ken, we understand that Mag ZZ is in the Nikon, and FAO says that ought to have plenty of film to do the Gum Nebula.
Okay. Fine. Thank you, sir.
Casper, Houston. No need to acknowledge. We're back 2 minutes from LOS. All your systems are looking good. Just a reminder to configure your DSE to High Bit Rate, Forward, Forward, Command Reset at LOS.
Okay, Hank. I copied you, and I'll catch that. Thank you.
Roger.
Sixty.
Another one we sneaked by.
now.
Thirty-six.
Okay, now this little terminator should be out here at 60.
Must have been Mandel'shtam I was looking at. Yeah. That would change [garble
Okay, and the lighter areas seem to have fewer craters.
Almost all these craters in the - let's see, can we say that the - I see no elongate craters at all. I'm just looking in the area just past Mandel'shtam. The dark areas seem to have more craters and more small craters. The light areas have - not so many craters.
Some bright halos and dark ones. And the darker areas look like Cayley, don't have as many bright craters on them, as a matter of fact. Let's see, can I - Yeah, there's one bright-rayed guy on - another Cayley type. Most of the Cayley types seem to have dark craters - generally rimless. Everything here is still - On the small scale, we have circular craters; on the large scale, we have crater chains and - and lineaments - they're on a very large scale. Both certainly.
Now, there's places out here in this Cayley now where you find smooth areas that interweave with the - the more pitted areas. Then these smoother bands seem to be just like these thin bands at. Then some of these bands seem to cross both the white and the Cayley-looking materials. Now then, here comes - this must be Mandel'shtam that I'm coming up on now.
No, I guess not. Rather, this must be - our old friend, the Cayley floor.
That stuff is all so subdued, it's just like someone stretched a cold cream over it up from underneath to hide it. Like it was a thick paint, and it - it just barely reflects all the things that are underneath it. And every now and then there's a little old bubble in it that popped.
As I look out to the south, I still see more and more of that same sort of thing.
See Chaplygin on the horizon there, and it's got - you can even see from here the - the bright rays that are splashed-
Okay; I'll come back to all these things. I'm gonna eat chow.
Red filter.
Boy, talk about being a creature of habit. Look at everything right side up.
Casper, Houston.
Hello there.
Hello. How'd everything go on the back?
Oh, we got a lot of very dim photographs.
Roger.
Actually, we got them all in. Times worked out just perfectly.
Okay. I'll get your film report whenever you're ready, and when you're...
The only - Okay. Let me give you that. I just was turning the page. I did have one comment; the first - the first frame on that antisolar sequence, I think is probably not part of the Gegenschein experiment itself. I think that's more of this zodiacal light business. But it's a five-minute exposure, and we took it with the spacecraft - Let's say my head's down and nearly in the local horizontal. The camera was pointing 30 degrees down, and it looks to me like it would have had the Moon in - in earthshine - in the field of view; so I suspect that that's not much of a - not a very good frame. The rest of the sequences went - went fine, and the pointing attitudes pointed us right at the places on the chart. And I have attitude errors on the antisolar sequence. I'll just give you the attitudes at the end, and restart it from the proper attitudes. It was 165, 257, and 354. The second part of step 4 was 167, 258, 357. The attitudes in step 7: 169, 264, and 0. Attitudes in step 10: 164, 275, and 359. Magazine Zulu Zulu has 15 exposures taken.
Roger. Copy, Ken.
And, Ken, whenever you get a break there in your eating period, I got the rest of your Flight Plan changes.
Okay. Let me get a couple of bags ahead here.
Hey, Hank, a little curiosity here that I guess it's just "gee-whiz." I've been noticing some things like I got Tool E tied to the G&N handrail, and I got a pair of scissors strapped down here in the LEB, on a tether, and I got a trash bag up in the tunnel; and most things in the cockpit give you troubles with floating around. They really - you really got to pay attention if you want them to be stable. But the trash bag never leaves the tunnel. And Tool E, every time I've looked at it has been pointing - it's been hanging up instead of hanging down as you would think of it in the CMS. And my scissors are generally up. And I - I had decided that gee, that, you know, that's my imagination. That can't really be. There's no preferred direction. Then I got to thinking about the thruster configuration we have giving us the - all minus-X thrusting whenever they do fire for attitude control, and so I thought I'd take a look here while we're in Attitude Hold; and sure enough, in Attitude Hold, the tool E didn't go up and the scissors do stay down. And I guess that's when we were Free most of that time rather than Attitude Hold. Apparently, you can see the effects over a long period in the cockpit of the minus-X firings for attitude. I thought that was kind of unusual.
That's pretty interesting.
And let me get - get a bag open here and I'll be ready to copy while I'm drinking.
Okay.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. Ken, the first change we want to look at is at 145:14.
Hank, if we're going to do this during the - in an actual eat period, the best thing for us to do is probably for you to read them very slowly, and I'll copy all I can and then when we get to the end, I'll read them back to you.
Okay. At 145:14, this is a minor change in that Mapping Camera photo PAD. The longitude there, where it says "159.9 degrees to 20.7 degrees west," that should be "23.7 degrees west," and it's just for your own information; and that's two and a half revs.
Okay. The next change is at 146:18, on the next page. 146:17, really, where it starts there with "Gamma Ray Shield - Off." Delete from there through "Image Motion - Off." That's delete "Gamma Ray Shield - Off; Mapping Camera - Off (T-stop), Wait 30 seconds; Mapping Camera - Standby; and Image Motion - Off." At 146:24 there where - in the block for MSFN updates, we won't be giving you a Mapping Camera photo PAD; instead it'll be a Pan Camera photo PAD; this is just for your information, and it'll be copied at 148:10.
And, Ken, we need High Gain, Auto, and we'd like to verify the position of the DSE recorder switch.
Okay. You've got Auto, and the DSE is in Forward and Forward; High Bit Rate.
Roger. Copy.
And, Ken, the next change is at 146:27; we want to delete all the little business there with the "Gamma Ray Gainstep - On (up) 4 steps (step 7)/ Shield - On (center)." Delete that whole line. Okay. The next change is at 146:30. At the top of the page. This is a minor change. The SIM experiment status should now be "Plus 1111 and 02222." And if you'll flip the page over at 147 hours, the SIM status should be the same as before: "Plus 1111, 02222." At 147:12, delete "Image Motion - On," delete "Mapping Camera - On (T-start)," and also delete that block for the photo PAD - Mapping Camera photo PAD. Okay, on the next page, at 148 hours, right at the top of the page, we want to add "Gamma Ray, Retract, to 7½ feet." The time for the retraction is 2 minutes 26 seconds. At 148:05, add "Pan Camera, Standby; Stereo; Power - verify; Pan Camera, Operate at T-start." And, Ken, somewhere out beside that, you can build you a little block, if you like, to copy the Pan Camera photo PAD.
At 148:17, add "Pan Camera, Standby at T-stop; Pan Camera, Off, MSFN cue; and Gamma Ray, Deploy."
At 148:29, where it talks about "Gamma Ray: Gainstep" et cetera, delete the middle part of that so that it reads "Gamma Ray: Gainstep - On (center)." That should be "Shield - On." To repeat, that should read "Gamma Ray: Gainstep - Shield - On (center)." And right under that, at 148:30 there, delete "Mass Spec, Retract to 8.4 feet."
At 148:30, at the top of the next column, the SIM status should be "Plus 1111, 02222." At the top of the next page, 149 hours, SIM status code should be the same as before, "Plus 1111, 02222."
And at 149:18, the block there that refers to "Pan Camera: Standby, Stereo, Power, Operate (T-start)," that little group, - this is a note to yourself - should be moved up such that the T-start occurs at 149:16.
At 149:30, the SIM status code should be "Plus 1211, 22222." And, Ken, that's all of them for now.
Okay, Hank, let me read them back to you, and I'll just start - start back here at the last one you gave me. At 149:30, we got the status code as 1211 and 22222. We moved the pan camera block that's now at 149:18 up to a point where the Operate comes at 149:16. SIM code on that page is - is four sticks, and zero, four deuces. Same status code on the top at 148:30. 148:29, it's "Gamma Ray: Gainstep, On - or Shield, On." 148:20, it's "Gamma Ray, Deploy." And, at about 148:17, it's "Pan Camera, Standby at T-stop, and then Off at MSFN command." 148:15, it's "Pan Camera: Standby, Stereo, Power, and then Operate at T-start," and I got a block ready for T-start and stop. At 148 even, it's "Gamma Ray, retract to 7½ feet," that's two minutes and 26 seconds from full retract - from full extension, and - I've deleted the Mapping Camera PAD at 147:15. I've deleted the block Mapping Camera at 147:12 - Oops, except for the "Image Motion, Increase," which still goes in there. I got a status change at the top of 147; the bottom line is now 02222. 146:27, we delete the "Gamma Ray" line. Big change in position of the Pan Camera photo PAD to 148:10. Deleted the little block of items starting with "Gamma Ray: Shield, Off," and ending with "Image Motion, Off" at 146:16. And the Mapping Camera photo PAD down 145:12 is two and a half revs and ends at 23.7 west.
Okay, Ken. That all looked pretty good, except at 148:30 - want to make sure you deleted the mass spec retraction.
Yeah, sure did. I'm sorry, I just read you the gainstep line. Yes, I'll leave the mass spec out.
Okay. That's a good readback.
Okay, Henry. If you don't have anything else for a couple of minutes, I'll go back to feeding my face.
Go right ahead. I won't bother you.
FAO, Capcom. Is the TCA time in the Flight Plan pretty good?
Say again, Hank?
I was on the wrong loop, Ken. I was just checking the time for TCA to Descartes. It's - it's pretty good, what's in the Flight Plan. John and Charlie are - are on their way up to Stone Mountain now to Cinco. They're about halfway there.
Outstanding. Did they - halfway up Stone Mountain or halfway to Stone Mountain?
They just passed Survey Ridge.
Okay. Did - Was that real obvious to them?
Yes, it was, and the surprising thing is that they have no trouble recognizing when they're on a ray. It's very obvious to them, on the surface.
Is that right? What - what looks different when they're on it?
Just an enormous amount of blocks, and - they're - just the way the terrain's all churned up; and they can tell this stuff's been thrown on top.
Beautiful.
Ken, the guys are on the first of one of those terraces there, just passing Station 5 now, and they - they were able to recognize the - the ray just by the block count.
Okay.
Hey, Henry, how do you read Casper now?
Reading you five by five, Ken. How me?
Oh, loud and clear. I - I guess you probably didn't get my comment about the glint over on Stone Mountain?
Negative. I hadn't heard anything for a while. I gave you a call while ago to tell you where they were.
(Chuckle) Yeh, okay, and I answered you and I guess I wasn't on Vox, I just realized. Just as you said that I - I had just gotten in a position as I passed overhead the - the area, and I was taking a look - I had two things in mind. One of them was to - to by the landing area, and I got there too late to tell whether or not I had seen any of that. And then the - the next thing I did was to look over towards the terraces and see how they look today, and - when I looked over towards the terraces, it was kind of strange because I was looking out - And I'd say maybe you can see - at this Sun angle looks like there might be a terrace out there. And you can see Crest crater very plainly. And the - the Cincos, you have to be - I have to be on top of the landing site to see it, and by the time I got around to that, I was downstream a ways; but I got a flash of light right at the base of Stone Mountain; just a glint, like a piece of metal flashed in the sunlight. And I'll bet you anything I got a reflection off the Rover if - if at about that time they were right at the base of Stone.
That's about where they were, Ken. It's about time to start your V49 maneuver.
Okay. Thank you.
And, John and Charlie are up there, now. They're at Cinco.
Already?
Yeah, they're making good time.
Doesn't seem possible they could go that fast.
Ken, you might keep an eye on your middle gimbal angle on this...
Henry, the other thing that - Oh, okay.
And I need to get you your mapping camera photos PAD up here before we get - you get too involved in this Gum Nebula thing.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. This is to be copied at about 145:12. T-start is 145...
Got it.
18:40. T-stop, 150:16:05. And the image motion changes called in the Flight Plan are good.
Okay. T-start, 145:18:40; stop, 150:16:05.
Good readback, Ken. And I won't bother you anymore while you're setting up.
Okay. One other thing I wanted to tell you about the - in the Descartes area. You remember the little cone-shaped thing that we looked at on the plotter?
Roger.
Just to the north and mostly to the west of Canoe.
That's affirmative.
Okay. Well, I - I've looked for it on four revs now, and I - I've identified the feature that it looked like it was, and it doesn't look like that at all. It's just a little - just a little soft mound with a crater in it, and it doesn't look any different than all the other craters when you look at it from here.
Well, that's interesting, but disappointing.
Yeah, I was, too. And, actually, that's about the same score for the one that's out here by Lassell.
Oh, is that right?
Well, in the photograph for that one there northwest of North Ray, it sure does look like it had a lot darker material around it.
Yeah, I know it does, and I haven't had a chance to look at it straight down, but it - from an oblique, it sure - sure looks the same as all the rest of the things around there.
And, Casper; Houston. When you get down to do that P52 and go to SCS, G&C suggests that perhaps you ought to - since you're that close to gimbal lock - that middle gimbal angle, you might go Minimum Deadband and uncage the BMAGs. And Low Rate on that, too.
Okay. That's not a bad plan.
Okay. And I got a 405 here, Hank. Light go away if I wait another minute?
That's affirmative.
You say affirmative on that...
That's affirmative, Ken. You - you wait a little bit, it'll help, but stars 12 and 13 should be available.
Okay; 7 and 13, thank you.
That's 12 and 13.
Okay; 12 and 13.
Well, there's - That's interesting. There's nothing in the sextant at all. And the telescope, I still haven't been able to pick up star patterns in.
FAO is checking into it, Ken.
And I have nothing on star 13, either. I'm going to press on with the Gum Nebula and see if I can catch this later.
Okay, Ken.
I suspect we've got something like the Moon in front of those stars.
Ken, maybe you can get that P52 after you finish the Gum Nebula.
Roger. That's what I'm gonna try.
Yeah, I've - I looked outside here, Hank, and I got the optics pointing at the Moon.
Roger.
As a matter of fact, I'm gonna have to wait awhile here just to clear the Moon to take this Gum Nebula sequence.
Roger. You should be clear, according to the Flight Plan, at about 36 after.
Are you sure - Has somebody verified that these - these long exposure times we're taking are going to be satisfactory when we've got a brightly lit Moon in the field of view? You know we looked at all this kind of stuff on the original, but when we started coming back trying to piece things in here in real time, I wonder if some of those things need to be verified.
Roger. FAO's checking. This was the PI's request.
Okay. I - We'll go ahead and take them, but he ought to be aware that I got a beautiful Earth-lit Moon out here. I just passed - I believe that's. Rima Sirsalis and - you know, you can see features, not as good as the first night, but, boy, they - they're still real big obvious features out here.
At least the star patterns all check out. I've got Canopus and Regor and Avior and all those stars in sight.
Well, that's good.
Casper, Houston. FAO advises they'd like for you to wait until LOS to do the photos.
Okay. Understand you want to wait until LOS. Okay. That ought to get us a little darker scene.
We might be pressed to get that P52 in there after that, but we'll just have to do the best we can.
Well, I'm not sure you're going to get a P52 in there either, Hank. Seems to me like I'm supposed to go to a north oblique photo attitude...
That's affirmative, and so why don't we just go ahead and scrub that 52?
and we're gonna be pressed just to make that thing. That's what I was gonna suggest. Good plan. And I'll catch 52 the next time we get in the dark. The platform is - obviously knows where it is. So, we'll go ahead and get this north oblique in here, and I'm gonna have a - It looks like that may be a tight one, too - just to get to it. But I'll - we'll get there, if we have to use the higher rate.
Roger.
Hank, you asked me earlier about the configuration of the DSE switches. Was there some problem in the last time I reconfigured?
INCO had some data that showed that it wasn't in Forward, and he was puzzled about it.
Well, I see I'm supposed to configure it again here in just a minute. Do you want me to cycle things, or anything like that?
Ken, INCO's going to take care of it this time. Would like for you to verify, though, that you are in that proper configuration. He's - at the time that we thought you'd be busy taking all these pictures here, I told him to go ahead and configure it at this end so you wouldn't have to mess with it.
Okay. I'll just verify it, then.
And on another check there, INCO verified there was no problem with your configuration.
Okay. I may be mistaken, Hank, but I believe that I can see the outer two rings of Orientale, now. I'm just coming up on the earthshine terminator, and I can see a big circular basin, that's really a - really a big guy - fills the whole window. And I can see reflections off the far rim and off the near rim, and I've got two concentric rings with some flat areas and little - little build-ups in it, and it really looks hilly in there. That's a - that's a spectacular thing; I wish we could see it in daylight.
Roger.
Okay, Ken, we're about four minutes from LOS. Everything's looking good on this end, and just to pass on something about the guys on the surface, they've got a real good view of South Ray from where they are, and they say that - that - that the crater - the ejecta from South Ray is two different kinds of material. There's some dark material and then the light material that we call ray material, so he said there's other ejecta right along with it in all directions, where there's dark and light.
Yeah? How about that. I think I told you yesterday that - that it appears to me that the interior of North and South Ray are significantly different.
Roger.
South Ray shows a great deal of dark and light splotches and North Ray just doesn't show that real dramatic difference.
reason not to wear this hat thing. Okay, I want to go magazine Papa Papa.
Excuse me. Mmm.
Okay. Image Motion coming On -
Mark. Barber pole.
And it's gray.
on at 19.
There's the barber pole; 1, 2, 3.
Intervalometer; coming.
Partly blank.
106.
Well, the outer flanks of King look exactly like the central peaks in their characteristics.
The old Sun angle comes down, you start to see more and more features around King's rim. This real white stuff looks like it's all streaked flow. It's hard to tell. Right now it looks to me like maybe some of these pools of things - they've got dark blocks in it and a lot more ripples. And it almost looks like that white cliff to the north had material flowing into the pool, rather than vice versa. And yet the stuff in the pool looks like it's flowing down and lapping into the crater itself. That pool of material runs out to the north. And this time, we'll try to follow some of these things out. The terrain out here doesn't look significantly different. It all has a somewhat radial pattern leaving King.
You sure can't see any here yet, the very subtle expression that runs up. These slumps that I talked about yesterday that are out here in the crater just to the northwest look like they emanate away from King, like they maybe rushed up the side of this - of this cliff in this old crater. I'm not sure if that's the true interpretation, but that's the way they appear. The one that I find that's so dramatic and startling - is this blob on the side. I'm gonna take a frame of Papa Papa of that anyhow. Now where did it go? Come here, you. That is really an impressive thing.
There's some blocks of material on the wall and some blocks in the center.
Let me get a picture here of the center, one out here of the wall feature, one of the rib feature. Okay, that's three pictures on magazine Papa Papa. They go up to 65. And that - that crater is really different, in that - that one outcrop, that outpouring. It's got a very dark band of material that hangs down from it. It's got another lighter blob running down that looks dark, but it's not as dark. Around the very upper crest, you see the same evidence of dark material that you see around the sharp crests of most of these big craters.
Ah, the good old Earth. And in this - this little area here where it has - this bright splash going over the sides -
Doesn't seem to have hi - has hills that look like King. And you find all these color variations up here; they're really associated with the craters for the most part. They look like swirls, but they really are associated with craters. Now I think that I 'm looking at right below me - stuff like just very light, dusty patterns that are laid out on the surface that really aren't associated with swirls or any such thing.
Casper, Houston.
Hello there.
Hello. Did you have a busy rev?
(Laughter) Yeah. That was a little tight. I went to a - to a - half degree per second, and we made it. Seems like I had some things I needed to bring you up to speed on. Let me see if I can find out where I wrote them down.
I feel like one of the most - one of the most interesting things I've seen on the back side here is in the crater Guyot. Up on the side, there's a big hole, and it sure looks like there is some big, black blob running out of it.
What's the name of that crater again, Ken?
Guyot. Just to the north and west of King.
Roger. Copy.
Ken, do you have any film reports for us?
Oh. Let's see. Magazine Papa Papa, I've got 77 showing, and - I'll get you that 35 millimeter mag here somewhere.
Okay. On 35, magazine Zulu Zulu, I'm reading 22 frames. I had to retake one of the frames; I knocked my flashlight, and it came on while I was in the middle of one of the sequences.
Roger. Understand. And if you'll give us Auto on the High Gain and Accept, we'll send you up a state vector.
You have Auto and Accept.
And the Pan Camera Power is on.
Roger.
Casper, the computer is yours.
Okay. Thank you.
Casper, we're ready for Power Off on the Pan Camera.
Okay. I'll get that in just a second.
Okay. The Power is Off.
Casper, you're awful quiet.
Yeah. I'm doing a little housecleaning.
Roger. And I hear your radio running while you're doing it.
Oh, yeah. And this one is kind of appropriate. Are you familiar with Mr Holst's suite "The Planets?"
No, I'm not.
Well, seemed that was an appropriate thing to bring along.
Roger.
You know, Hank, you wouldn't think you could lose something in only 12 feet. Right now, I've probably got more things lost than I've got found.
(Laughter) Roger.
Somewhere, I lost the ring sight that goes on the TV camera and the Hasselblad. And it's probably wherever I put it. (Laughter) But, unfortunately, I just don't happen to know where that is. I guess that's really the only piece of operating equipment that I've misplaced. Well, that's pretty good, considering the shambles that this place generally stays in.
It's really puzzling. I've been sitting here - one of the reasons I'm not saying an awful lot is I'm trying to get some kind of an idea in my head as to how you describe the differences between the front and the back materials. And that's really hard. Because every time you look for a - an objective thing, you really kind of find that there's a lot of similarities, when you get down to the details. It's not clear that the back side is - would be that much different from the front if we put a few mares in there and a couple of - of the big rilles.
One of the things that I noticed about - most of the craters on the back side, the larger ones - even the ones with the steep interiors - do not have any kind of a - a block ejecta around the outsides. You know. I shouldn't say none, but it's very seldom - You have to stop and look for each block. But there are a few craters like - Chaplygin, and - a couple like that that - in fact, have large blocks around the outside. King is another one that has - The outer flanks of King look very much like the central feature in the interior.
And I got North and South Ray again and -
John and Charlie are at Station 5 now, Ken.
Okay. I guess I really can't say I see them.
They're packing up to move on down to Station 6 now.
Okay. I can see one, two, three distinct layers and it looks like several streams of material that go from the interior of South Ray over to - One of them points out, goes in South Ray and over the lip and down the outside. And it points over towards Baby Ray. And I'm trying to look at the material - All those things we said we could see, all those lineaments and things that we looked at back in the furrow of Descartes just don't show, Hank.
Roger.
And I'm looking down into the floor of Dollond T, and it looks like Dollond T has two different units: one that kind of floods in from the west - looks like it sort of fills the floor there. All that stuff that we talked about and all those things we looked at on the plotter are apparently below the resolution of what I can see with these binoculars. And, in general, as the Sun comes up, my first impression at the lower Sun was that the material to the - of Stone and Smoky were the same and that the Descartes furrowed material was also part of the same thing. As the Sun angle comes up, it starts to change its character a little bit, and it's looking more like the plotter photos.
Roger. It sure seems that the Sun angle really affects what - what you're able to see. And - I guess you're about ready to look at Alphonsus. Is that correct?
That's correct.
Okay. We're just coming up on Albategnius and Klein now. Boy, I wish we could get a couple more of those - forward oblique photo passes. That was the one time when the windows were really pointing in the direction you'd like to have them. Other than that, you have a permanent crick in your neck.
I've looked at Alphonsus on quite a few of our revs; and, at the lower Suns, there was absolutely no - nothing I could say about dark halos around those little craters. Now, this time, I look at them, and there's a very obvious dark halo. It looks exactly like the dark halos you see around the two craters to the south of Theophilus. I've looked for some topographic or - or surface feature that might he different between the northern and southern halves of Alphonsus, and I've had absolutely no luck at all with that. I see now one, two, three distinct, dark halo areas and probably a fourth one. The rim of Alphonsus and the rim of Ptolemaeus are inseparable - where I am right now. I haven't quite gotten to it yet. The long, north-south trending lineament that runs through Alphonsus looks just like the photographs. It does indeed run up there, and it runs through the wall, and looks like it's an extension of the little crater chain that runs through Ptolemaeus. Halley fill in the floor of Ptolemaeus looks just like it does in Alphonsus. I don't see any - any really significant difference. The only thing I can say about the dark halo areas in Alphonsus - is that - Well, I can't get the binoculars on them because I can't get close enough to the window.
If you remember that one we looked at the blowups of, I'm looking at that now, and - Yeah, there's a slight albedo difference or a darkening of the material around the - It doesn't look any different than any other crater down there. It's filled in on the western flank. It has a slightly raised rim around the eastern side. It's very subtle. It looks very subdued. It looks just like all the rest of the craters that you see all over the rest of the Moon. Nothing significant about it - except in its setting. I really don't see any relationship between Davy and Davy's chain with any other feature that shows in either Ptolemaeus or the surroundings. The main token - I can't even get over far enough to take a good look at - at Alpetragius. is just about out of the field of view. And one thing I am gonna try to take a look at, and I don't know if we have enough Sun yet, and I'm gonna use these light level - red and blue filters, and take a look at Lassell C. And see whether or not there's any enhancement that's comparable to what we've seen with the photographs with the red and. blue filters.
And just looking at these things directly through the filters, you don't - you don't see anything there at all. I didn't really think you would, but I thought it was an interesting thing to try.
Roger. Copy.
And I can see a lot of the - that little crater that's out to the west of Lassell C, the one that looks like it has a little cone, is very obvious now that the Sun's come up higher; and it's - it does look a little different, but there's so many of these little craters and little mountain things that stick up through the floor of the mare that it's not real obvious that that's anything out of the ordinary.
Can you see the little bright ray there?
Say again.
There should be a little bright ray, I think. Isn't it? Near the suspected dark cone?
I didn't see any bright ray around it. No sir.
And you can see all the Fra Mauro area now. And Rima Parry system stands out, and you can see Parry and Bonpland. And most of the highlands material that's over to the east of - of Fra Mauro itself all has the same appearance as though it's - belongs to the same pattern.
You ought to be approaching the terminator now. Is that right?
Yes sir.
And - I have been rather impressed with the fact that, in most of these little - grabens or rilles, in the low Sun, it appears to me that the floors of these things have a lower crater density in general than the outsides of the crater - the crater density on the outside of the - of the rille itself. You can see this at low Sun angle quite dramatically.
And just to the west of the Fra Mauro area, we've got another rille coming up, and - in places, it looks like it has a little - little ridge around it. When you get the real low Suns on this very mottled surface - it looks more like you're looking at some of those sponges and things you see in the ocean floor than it does any part of the Moon - the way it will look when the Sun comes up.
Okay, Hank. Do you have a - couple of photo PADs for me?
I sure do.
Okay. Why don't you fire away?
Okay. The first one is at 4 - 148:10, and it's a Pan Camera PAD.
Okay.
T-start: 148:07:14; T-stop: 148:17:14.
Okay. T-start for the Pan Camera: 148:07:14; stop: 148:17:14.
Okay. At 149:05 on the next page, your Solar Corona PAD.
Okay.
149:02:56.
149:02:56.
And the same page, down at 149:25; Pan Camera PAD - T-start is 149:16:24; T-stop: 149:38:04.
149:16:24, and 149:38:04 for the Pan Camera.
Roger. Good readback.
And if you've got your scratchpad handy, I've got a couple of comments I'd like to - questions I'd like to get up on Guyot, you mentioned a while ago.
Okay. Stand by. I'll get it. Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. You described this big hole with a black blob, and the question is: Is the big hole a crater, or does it look more like a volcanic vent?
Well, it looks to me like a - like a crater, like all the rest of the craters around here, except it occurs in the side of a - a crater wall. But - I've been looking for similar features, and there's quite a few of these big - real large craters that have similar size craters in their walls too. So I wouldn't say that's anomalous.
Roger. And does the blob look at all like lava?
(Laughter) Well, I can't get close enough right now to see. There's...
Okay. We just want you to have these questions...
two things that look like flows. One of them is a - Yeah. Well, I - obviously, that's one of the things that - and I don't think we're gonna be able to answer that question; at least, I can't. But I - it looks like - it looks just like the - material that you see coming down the side of the mountains to the north of Flagstaff. I know that's lava, but whether this is the same sort of thing or not I don't know, because there's so many places on the back side where you see what appears to be flow lines and if you follow them far enough, you find some pla - place where they get lost. Now this one is a - has a real dark set of material - and when I say real dark, I mean dark compared to the rest of the Moon. And it's - it seems to be - consisting of two different flows, or two different units: one - much lighter and closer to the regular lunar surface; both of them are darker though, and the dark ones look like the same kind of dark material - I'd say it looks the same as what you see in subtle expressions in the little domes in King and along the central peak.
Casper, could you get the Laser Altimeter On, please?
Oh. Yes sir. It's on. Thank you.
Okay. And could you give us an estimate of how large this feature is?
Uh-oh. I was afraid you'd ask that. Let me get a scale on Guyot.
The crater is in the - almost due - west of the wall - pointing towards Lobachevsky; and I would say that the crater is about - between a quarter and a third the diameter - The diameter of the crater is between a quarter and a third the total depth from the floor of the Crater Guyot up to the rim.
Roger. Copy. And - Ken, we - we - you got another opportunity to look at this thing on the next rev, I think. Our figures here show that your time of closest approach is 147:31:04. And you should be able to see it through Window 4 and then Window 3 as you go by. And, this is just for your own information, if you do want to take another look and take a stab at these questions and any other things you see about it.
Okay. I've been - I commented on this thing, I thought, sometime yesterday - first time I saw it - and I've been looking at it periodically. Unfortunately, it occurs at the same time King does, and you - you get all wrapped around the axle trying to figure out which one you need to work on.
Okay. Just threw this out to you in case you want to take a look at it.
Yeah. Thank you very much. I've got you a couple of pictures of it.
Let's see. I'll try to whip off a P52 here for you before I start to exercise.
Hey, that's real good, Ken. We were hoping you'd donate a couple of minutes of your exercise period for that.
I'm so far behind on exercise now that I may never exercise again. It's really gonna hurt when I get back and have to go to work.
Ken, you have been getting some exercise - You haven't been omitting these exercise periods, have you?
No. No. But that just isn't - you know, that just isn't much. I can hardly get a heart rate enough to even tell it's there. It doesn't seem like I can change it with the equipment I have.
Okay. Well, we want you to...
No. I get the exercise. It just doesn't amount to anything.
take full advantage of all these.
(Laughter) Yeah. Well, you'll feel better when you get through, having done something like that. Even though I don't think it's enough exercise to amount to anything, it just makes you feel better. I advocate doing them.
Casper, we have the angles. You're clear to start.
Okay. I'll catch it at 00:50.
And you'd better get your camera set up, Ken, for the terminator photos.
Okay. Thank you.
And when you get that, just might as well do your exercise ' don't want to interfere with that. And I'll just give you a brief call prior to LOS.
Okay.
By golly, I did clean my sinuses out.
Casper, Houston. Do you read? You are looking good at LOS, and we'd like you to verify the DSE after LOS.
Okay, Hank. Will do.
Casper, if you still read, the Surgeon says you got your heart rate up to 90 now.
Hank, according to that theory, it sounds like the hardest work I've done in this flight was lift-off.
(Laughter) Roger. Hey, INCO says he's going to take care of the tape recorder, but you might ought to verify.
supposed to But - don't care about that.
Okay; I'm looking down at Mendeleev again, and - guess one of the things that I'm starting to notice is that - in this outer rim up here, we have a - a fairly smooth, Cayley-like looking material. It's the same as what's down on the floor, Then we have what looks like an old slump material. And on the outside of this smooth Cayley that's at the top, looks like more smooth material. It's non-pitted, which means non-Cayley. The margins of all this stuff are all very, very indistinct. Just can't see anything. There's no flow fronts, there's -
They just come together. You can see where the break is, and it's just exactly the same way it looks down there at Stone Mountain. It just isn't obvious where one unit starts and another one stops. It looks like mare material to me, but with - without the grabens and without the wrinkle ridges and with probably a larger crater count in general.
I'm looking at that big chunk in the wall where it looks like something else has run down inside. And when you get up and look at it up close, it all looks the same. You don't see that something else. That's - that's a subtle textural difference. That little area has a lot more pits, and there seems to be a lot more slump. I can look back in the shadows with the binoculars, and I see a lot of what looks like unconsolidated material. It just sort of looks like mud that exceeded its angle of repose, all slumped in there. There are craters in the walls of this slump material. Some look like they're pointing down, some like they went into the sides. Around the top, it looks like another highly cratered area. As though this top portion may have been a - a crater all its own, just like the one next to it. And then whatever dropped in this big event created Mendeleev, just sliced it off. But throughout it all, the only thing I see that's different from one place to another is just the amount of - of pockmarks that you see on these surfaces. They're all crosshatched, and thatched, and some of them show - there's one here that shows a little bending. When you look down on it, they look like nice sharp lineaments, but, boy, when you get down and look at them in detail, they just lose all that sharpness completely.
Why, it looks just like soil that's been torn up.
Mostly the back side is - is characterized with an absence of blocks. It's really devoid of constructional features. King is a - a markedly different feature than everything else we've seen. Most of the things I've seen have been up to the north. That little crater that's coming up - coming up to King looks like it's got this same material that looks like it's emanating from King, but now this stuff is coming down from the south; that may be ray material from Bruno. And I'm gonna get a picture of this little guy, because it's -
Oh, that thing is probably gonna be too hard to get to. Doggone it. There it is. It looks like a baby King.
That one was number 48, the magazine Victor.
Now I'll get a good picture of the outer materials of King; this is typical sampling. Here's a good picture of that northern rim. Looks like this stuff to the south looks very much like a flow that comes out from King. And the south mid-west looks very much like the material that's oozed out. All the material that's going out to the north - I mean, that's the south and east - all the material that's going out to the north and east has that same characteristic. There's light material that runs through there and seems to be running through - almost without any kind of rhyme or reason, go through the walls and out onto the ejecta.
Whole area looks different than most other places around here. Now, some of this stuff that I'm calling ejecta - I'm gonna get a picture here of what it looks like as it goes up on the rims of this adjacent crater. And looks to me like it splashes up onto this other crater, as though it all came out in a big surge. I'm not sure that's a reasonable thing to be saying. This series of King ends with frame number 50.
Well, I'll be darned. That looks - that's even different than I thought it was before. Here I got this crater that goes from the top of Guyot down; then this black stuff comes down; then all those striations around there make a pattern that swirls and curves with it. I 'm gonna have to draw a sketch of that, because I'll never be able to describe it in words. But it does indeed run right down the walls. That's really beautiful. And there's old Mother Earth. Man, that is a beauty, too.
Never get tired of watching earthrise.
Casper, Houston.
Hello, there.
Hello: Ken. How'd it go on the last pass?
Oh, it went all the way around, came back out the front side, and I got exercise, and got some terminator pictures, and got a good look at Guyot again. I guess I'm gonna have to - gonna have to make a few corrections to my size estimate on that thing at Guyot. It looks like the crater that it's coming out of is really like half the size of the Guyot feature, instead of what I had said before: about a third. And - not only that, but the - I disc - I saw something else this time that was - also went unnoticed before. The crater is located right at the top of the rim and works its way down to about halfway, then this dark material comes out; and there's two - as I said before -there's two shades of this dark material. Then - a striation that shows up that's like all the rest of these lineaments we've been seeing all over the Moon. And I think I remember saying something as I passed Theophilus on one of our early revs right after we got here that it looked like these - these patterns that we see that are all over the surface - on the sides of every hill and every out - every vertical surface - they all seem to follow the contours of any local topography. If there's a - like in Theophilus, I first noticed it here on the crater rim - There were some other little craters up along the side, and those little craters that were up along the side left impressions down inside the - on these - these striations that run around the - the rest of the - of the Moon, or the rest of the crater interior. And that happened everywhere you looked.
Could they be fractures or something like that?
Well. That was what I was wondering: if these are shock reflections or something like that. And I guess that still is a reasonable hypothesis, except these things are all over the surface, everywhere you look - in places where you really wouldn't expect to see shocks; but, you know, maybe they're there after all.
Did you happen to observe, going by King this time, anything up to the north, any expression at all of the Soviet Mountains?
Yeah. I've been looking for those for - quite a few revs now, and I cannot follow the rays of King outs to the north and make any conclusion at all about them. I can see some of the ray material that comes down from King, but - or it comes out from King, I should say - but I'm really having no luck at all tracing that stuff to the north. Then I started looking for this - Soviet Mountains; and, when you look north and south - way out on the horizon here - you get the impression that there's north and south trending, very subtle constructional builds. But I'm not sure that isn't just the way we're looking at it, because every time you look cross-Sun, you're gonna see that sort of pattern. Anything that's there is gonna show up, and if you put enough of these craters together, they are bound to make a line. So, I can't really say that I see one; it appears to me that if there is, there's a very, very shallow rise which, instead of calling it a mountain range, I would call it more like a plateau front similar to the Kant Plateau rise as it comes up from behind Theophilus.
Could you give us High Gain, Auto position?
You have Auto.
Okay. I guess the - the Laser Altimeter is down to about 50 percent now, and - the ground track is not gonna go over that part, so we're not gonna get any laser information to give us any data on the topography in that area. And that's why we're particularly interested in your observations of whether there's actual rise in the topography there or not.
It's real hard to say. I'd say if there is, it's like a plateau though, Hank - very subtle.
Ken, could you give us Wide Beam width and then back to Narrow?
Yeah. That doesn't seem to help. Let me go back and try her.
Okay. I've got you back in Reacq and Narrow.
Okay.
You want me to try Auto again?
Okay, Ken. Go back to Auto.
Okay. Looks like you got it that time.
Anything else to report on your back side observations, Ken?
Say again, Hank?
Do you have any other comments about the back side observations?
No. I guess there's some stuff around King there again that's just - the more I study that one feature, the more I see with it, which is sort of what you'd expect. And it's kind of nice because it's right on the ground track so often. Looks like there's a lot of material that I would call an ejecta blanket that comes out from it. It seems to climb up the sides of craters around it, surrounding it. And it looks definitely like there's some kind of a - of a flow - again, I would characterize it more as a mud flow than anything else. It looks like it comes out of that south-eastern corner - the stuff that goes out to the northeast and to the northwest is all - looks like it comes out a lot faster.
Roger. Can you see any expression of that central feature out to the north?
Say again, please.
The central feature there - the "Y" in King crater - can you see any expression of that out to the north - through the north wall of the crater, up toward the north?
No. No better than you can looking at the photographs. There's a lot of light material up there that has what looks like dark material sticking through it. It looks that way very obviously - looks like there's rocks and - it's still hard to determine if those are rocks or if those are shadows, but I've seen it a couple of times looking back from the - from west to east, and it still looks like - hard - shadow, so it must be our - it must be dark material or a block at least, rather than shadows.
Roger. We're gonna have the rest of your Flight Plan updates for you later in this rev, Ken. I notice it's supposed to be your eat period, and I don't want to eat up too much of that, if you'll pardon the expression. So I'll hush up for a while.
After a pun like that, you'd better.
(Laughter) Roger.
That was so bad, Hank, it belongs on our "Thought for the day" board.
(Laughter) Roger.
Hank, did the surface guys say anything about - have they seen any different kind of material? I guess - I understood all they saw yesterday was breccia. Have they seen anything else this morning?
Stand by.
Ken, most of the things they've seen today are breccia again. They did find one rock they thought was crystalline, but there's some doubt about it.
Well, based on our past experience, when you see a crystalline rock, it's best to be quiet about it, I guess.
Okay, and the Gamma Ray is coming to Retract -
Mark.
Roger.
Barber pole. And my watch has started.
And, Hank, how about if I put the Pan Camera to - to Power at the same time I take the Image Motion up, so I can have a couple extra seconds to look at the landing area.
That's fine, Ken.
Okay, the Image Motion is barber pole. Pan Camera is Standby. Stereo, Power, barber pole and gray.
Copy.
And the Gamma Ray Boom is coming Off -
Mark.
Roger.
Boy, as the Sun angle comes up now, the features in the landing area are really fading out.
There's more evidence of terracing and banding in Smoky Mountain than there is in Cone, it looks like.
How close are they going to get to that on this...
On this Sun angle, I can see one, two - Say again.
I was just curious to how close they were going to get those bands on their trip to North Ray.
Yeah. Well, the other thing is that they were going to go down to Ravine, and it looks to me like the material at Ravine is about the same material that around North Ray. If they get there and come up the way they're scheduled to, it looks like they're going to be on the same unit that they would have gotten down at Ravine.
You really have to look at this stuff in all Sun angles because you see different things from hour to hour. It's really amazing. How we doing on the Pan Camera?
Still got a little over a minute to go. I'll give you a call.
All right, sir. It sure looks like that stuff that comes into the - looks like North Ray was blasted into a piece of Smoky Mountain - what it really looks like. And that the Smoky Mountain and the stuff out to the - to the east of there is really probably all from the same stuff.
Casper, about 15 seconds to T-start.
Okay, we're Operate. Barber pole and a gray.
Roger.
You know, it's very interesting that down there at Alpetragius, there's a lot of the linear features that line up with the Imbrium sculpture. They come right down, come through Alpetragius, go through the central peak, come right through the southern wall, and go on out, and one of them goes on down and hits the rim of Arzachel.
That sounds pretty interesting there, Ken.
I'm looking at Lassell C and the little highlands clump that's by it. And - remember, we had a red and a blue color difference, and right now the Southern Pease with a crater in it is sort of a - a tan color, and the Northern Pease is a gray. When I look at the mare, I see a big swatch of - of the tan-colored mare down to the south that goes over towards Guericke. And I see a - a tongue of darker gray material. The area around Lassell C has the tan tone to it. Then it goes out about as far as our little cone and the little bright crater next to it. That's about the outer limit - maybe just a little beyond. Then there's a patch of the - of this tan stuff that's down to the south that about lines up with the big Achaean rille that's over to the southeast. Then there's a patch in the gray-colored mare down inside of that. It's just a little circular piece. In looking at the Lassell C feature - a look at it in detail - it appears to me that this tan stuff on the south end of it has fewer craters than the stuff on the north, although not an awful lot, but there's little pitted craters all over the northern part. They're not on the southern parts and there are a couple of light, streaked bands that appear in the southern clump that you don't see in the north.
Can you still see Lassell?
Say again, Hank.
Can you still see Lassell?
Just barely, yeah.
Okay. I'm just curious why we don't see that little dark feature that's been reported there near the bright one - up to the west of Lassell C.
Oh, you do, Hank. I didn't mean to say you didn't see it. I said it doesn't look like what we saw before - what we thought we saw. It's a smooth sided thing. Let me get the binocs on it.
Smooth-sided, but through the binoculars, it doesn't look at all like a cone. It looks like a little dome with one side of it broken out. And there are several other little domes out here now that I hadn't seen before.
When you say side broken out, do you mean like a - a - a - fractured-out piece, or did it look more like a crater?
Well, through the - to the visual - just to your eyeball, it looks like a - I'll have to catch that again later, but it looked, to the eyeball, like it had a little crater in it. When I got the binoculars on it, it looked like there was just a section of it that was broken out.
Any evidence of where it went?
No, sir. That's a loaded question.
Roger (laughter).
Next thing you're going to want to know how it came to be there.
Do the other - Are the other domes similar in appearance to that one?
Yeah. They're not as large, and I hadn't seen those before just now. They're right in the corner of the window, as usual. It's going to take a little work to find them.
Are they all complete, or do they have pieces missing also?
Hank, I just saw them at the time I mentioned them. And best I could tell, they are complete.
Okay.
But I'll have to take another look. You know, I could have been - I could have got caught with a crater that inverted on me too. I am going to have to look carefully to make sure I didn't do that.
And, Ken, we're about 15 seconds from T-stop.
Okay. Standby.
How about if I go ahead and put the gamma ray out?
Roger. Go ahead, and the lens is stowed.
Okay. And the Power is coming Off the Pan Camera -
Mark. The Gamma Ray Boom is on its way out with a barber pole. And I guess you'd like to have the Shield Off. While I'm about it, I'll do that. And I'm ready to copy your PADs, or whatever things you said you had there.
And, Ken, could you get the mass spec on for us all?
It's on.
Roger.
Okay, the first change is at 1...
Did we lose an element?
Negative. That was a Flight Plan change we were just getting to. We want to look at it for a rev off, and then we're going to bring it back on.
Okay, (laughter) that was the one that we had agreed was a - was a "Don't waste time call." I thought maybe you just watched an element burn out.
Negative. I guess I should have warned you before I hollered that. The first change after that comes at 149:39.
Go ahead.
Okay. After "Pan Camera - standby (T-stop)," add "Gamma Ray, Deploy; Pan Camera, off (MSFN cue)." And I don't know whether you can squeeze it in 06 there or not, but, we also want to add, "Mass Spec Discriminator, High." Up.
Okay. I got "Gamma Ray, Deploy" after "Pan Camera to standby" at 149:38. And I'll get the "Pan Camera, off" until you tell me or when you tell me. I'll take the "Mass Spec Discriminator to High."
That's affirmative. And in the little MSFN update block there, cancel - delete the photo PAD - PC photo PAD, the LTV photo PAD, and the manoeuvre PAD. And change the "TEI-53" to TEI-54."
Okay.
All righty. At 149:45, "Mass Spec Discriminator to Low." Down.
Okay. "Mass Spec Discriminator, Low" at 149:45.
On the next page, at 150 hours, change the "SIM Exp Status" code to "(plus 1211) (02222)."
Hey. Hey, Hank? What do you want? You're - you're getting into areas where we get AOS next time. How about letting me go ahead and work on this sunrise solar corona setup? That's a time-critical guy that if I don't get it just right, I'll miss it.
Okay.
Can I get the rest of those updates then?
That's affirmative.
Okay. Thank you.
Minus 3 minutes before.
Okay. The Shield is on.
Copy.
Casper, Houston. We're about 4 minutes or so from LOS. We may lose the high gain here shortly. Everything is looking good at this point. And INCO says it might help on acquisition to tweak your dial a little bit. Pitch, 10; Yaw, 0 for the next acquisition. And like to remind you to configure your DSE.
Okay, Hank. Thank you.
It's on the solar sunrise - solar corona portion. Requires 5 percent of the DAC film in the camera. That's gonna start at minus 5 minutes before sunrise, or the equivalent of 4 minutes on the countdown in the checklist. Stand by for start.
Requires 5 percent of the DAC film in the camera. That's gonna start at minus 3 minutes before sunrise, or the equivalent of 4 minutes on the countdown in the checklist. Stand by for start.
Four, 3, 2, 1 -
Start.
One-half, 1/8, 1/30, 1/60; 4 seconds, 1 second; 10 seconds, 4 seconds, 1 second.
One-half, 1/8, 1/30, 1/60.
(Cough)
(Singing) Dee-dee-dah-dum. This darn spacecraft is really cooler is.
Fifteen seconds, CMC Mode going Free.
Stand by. CMC Mode, Free.
In 20 seconds, the DAC will go on and remain on until sunrise. That will be DAC adjust the settings.
Stand by.
DAC on. I got the EL camera. Verify that it to the exposure.
be 10 seconds. Stand by.
One, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 -
Close 4 seconds. Stand by. 2, 3 -
Close. Stand by for 1 second. Stand by -
Open. Go one click to the right, one-half second. Stand by -
Open. Go two clicks to the right and I'm on one-eighth of a second. Five seconds to go. Standby -
Mark it. Two clicks to the right and I'm on one-thirtieth of a second. Five seconds to go. Standby -
Mark it. to the right, one-sixtieth of a second. Stand by -
Mark it. The EL camera off and the DAC off. CMC Mode, Auto. GET. On the countdown. 64.
Gamma Ray coming to Retract -
Mark.
Image Motion going to barber pole plus 4.
Barber pole, l, 2, 3, 4.
The Gamma Retract is Off.
Actually, that worked out pretty good. I've never done it without the - without the two.
Okay, Standby, Stereo, Power. Standby, Stereo, and Power. Barber pole and gray. Go to Operate at 16:24.
8.
Operate. Barber pole and gray. Now we'll finish up a little sunrise solar corona.
Now, let's see, we got a 70 - EL shows 73. DAC shows 82.
Eighty-one.
That's right. That's supposed to seconds before it. right.
DAC's here.
And Power, On. Okay, put the tone booster back on. And we'll check it. Oh, there's my for the night.
Sure would like to have that little Hasselblad. That's a nice camera. Had a real one that you could keep as your own. I like that electric feature.
Okay, let's try a little check on the surface polarizer filter. I don't think that'll show me a thing. I think I looked at that once.
Now, that's interesting. looked at that once.
Casper, Houston.
Hello, Houston. Are you there?
Roger. How's it going?
Oh, just fine. That last sequence worked out just right on the money. Last frame...
Glad to hear that.
off and up came the Sun.
What could you see through your Polaroid filter?
Oh, it doesn't do a thing. There's apparently just a little bit of polarizing done by the windows. And as I rotate the filter, why, it brightens and dims the scene just slightly. And I checked it against different types of material - the darker materials and the lighter things. And they all seemed to respond exactly the same way. I can't see any - I can't see any effects of polarizing from the surface reflection at all.
I believe I would have expected a difference.
That time as I went by King, I took a look at a little different approach. I started out with the central peak and I tried to follow it to the worth. And it appeared to me that perhaps those central peak three prongs - I was looking at the crater blocks that are on them. And then I looked at the floor, and there's a lot of crater blocks that are laying on the floor in between the two main tongues of that central fork. The - it appears to me now that maybe there were three of those pieces of central peak that run out instead of two and that perhaps they curve a little bit over to the right. Because you do see a line of the light material that continues on to the north for quite a distance that's the same thing we have seen on the photos. The first time that I've been able to see any continuous chain that goes between the central peak into the walls. And I'd like to look one more time, and see if there's any variation in the number of blocks that I see as I look circumferentially around the wall. Perhaps there is - Where the expression of the central peak goes through, I may find a higher concentration of blocks. That's what I'd like to look for next. But it looks like perhaps those - if those central features do go through the wall, that they must take a slight curve to the right. As the Sun angle comes down, these things that I reported as swirls look more and more like swirls than they did at the higher Sun, which is just backwards from what I would have anticipated, and...
Ken, we are coming up on T-stop for the Pan Camera.
Thank you, sir.
And, it's off - or Standby, I should say.
And the Gamma Ray is going back out.
Casper, the lens is stuck.
Mass Spec Discriminator is going to High.
Casper, you are clear to go Power Off on the Pan Camera.
Okay. Pan Camera Power is Off.
Your comment that there may be a third fork in that thing is kind of interesting. You can - If you use imagination, you might see it in a photograph, although I'm not too sure.
Well, that's kind of a - that's kind of tenuous thing to be saying. I'm going to have to look some more; but I was - I - I started by tracing the blocks down the ridge in one of the peaks and then following it. And it looked - it curved, and I just followed it around. And sure enough, it looked like you hit a place along the wall where there might have been a higher concentration of blocks. And in the length of time you're overhead with this window orientation, that's about - you just can - you get this in little bitty bits and pieces. That's where that Polaroid sure would be nice. If you see something like that, and you would like to think about it, then plan your next pass - Instead of doing all your planning in real time, you could lay that picture out in front of you, and - and take a look at it, and then come back next time a little smarter.
Yeah, that - that - that'd be nice. Shame we don't have it.
Casper, could you give us Auto on the High Gain?
Okay. How about that?
Thank you.
Casper, we're ready for a Discriminator, Low.
Okay, Discriminator's going back to Low -
Mark it.
And I have the rest of these Flight Plan changes for you. Just give me a - a call when you're ready to take them.
Gee, I'll finish my little chores here and be with you.
Okay, Henry. Ready to copy.
Okay, Ken. We left off, I think, about 150 hours.
Yes, sir.
Okay. That SIM code should be, "Plus all l's" and then, "0, all 2's."
Okay. "Plus all 1's" and "0, all 2's."
And at the same time, we want to delete the "PC, Standby" through the "PC, Operate (T-start)." Want to keep the comment in there about the image motion.
Okay, that's deleted. Okay.
Okay. At 150:10, delete the Pan Camera photo PAD.
Okay, that PAD's deleted.
Okay. And starting there at about 150:13, we want to delete everything except - Maybe I ought to read off what we ought to delete. Delete the "Pan Camera, Mono." Delete the "Pan Camera, Standby." We want to keep the Mapping Camera stuff. Delete "Pan Camera, Off." Delete the - Stand by.
Okay. Delete the "Mapping Camera, Ion Source, Off." Delete "Experiment, Standby." Delete the caution. Delete the "Man - Mapping Camera, Retract." Delete "X-Ray, Standby." Delete "Gamma Ray, Retract." Delete the MSFN block there, the whole block. Delete the "Mapping Camera, Retract." Delete the "Mapping Camera/Laser Altimeter Cover, Close." Delete "P00, enable all jets." Delete the Verb 49 maneuver thing, both lines, and the high gain remark. And that should leave us with "Mapping Camera, Off (T-stop) Wait 30 seconds. Mapping Camera, Standby. Image Motion, Off. Laser Altimeter, Off. Alpha Particle/X-Ray Cover, Close."
Okay. I concur.
Okay. And in addition, back up at 150:18 now, we want to add in there, "Mass Spec, Ion Source, On - up.
Okay. You want to add the "Mass Spec, Ion Source, On" at 150:14.
That's affirmative, sir. And we - we still got the urine dump in there. And at 150:30, the experiment status should be "Plus 1110, 01222."
Okay. That's "Plus all 1's, 01222."
Negative. In the first register there, the last digit is 0. Because we got the...
Okay. "Plus 1110."
Alpha Particle door closed.
Roger.
Okay. And right after that, we want to delete both of those P52s. Both the Option 3 and the Option 1.
Okay, they're deleted.
Okay. That does it for now, Ken.
(Laughter) It didn't leave much, did it? I'll tell you one thing...
[garble
I want to squeeze in here somewhere, and I'm not sure we're at the right place to do it. But I have yet to pick up a star pattern in the telescope. And I'm going to take one of these backside areas here and make a concerted effort to that.
All righty.
But I can see plenty of stars all over the place outside, and I just can't see a thing through that telescope. And I know we could when we were in Earth orbit, because the first thing I thought was that we didn't have it, and then I waited until we got around and looked at a bright part of the sky, and we got hold of Scorpion. It was there and it was all beautiful. And now, I look out there and it's just - there's just nothing there. It's just black. And that's after getting well dark adapted.
Where did they go?
(Laughter) I don't know. Maybe it was their eat period. They're all out to lunch.
Hey, Henry.
Go ahead.
You know, we were gonna separate the - the water dump from the other dumps on one of these passes somewhere. And I don't know where that is, but I - We're not getting very much collected, and we probably ought to - I think I'll just hang onto it until it comes time to use it.
Okay.
I'm looking at the little bright crater that has the ray-excluded zone that's just south of Mädler, and it looks like there is a little bit of - like there's a little topographic high that runs right down one ridge of that ray-excluded zone. That's the one that goes through the south. And it looked like there was a little dark material in there, and maybe on another pass, I'll get a chance to see it better.
Where is it you're looking, Ken?
Say again, Hank?
Where - where are you looking, now?
That's a little bright crater with a ray-excluded zone that's just about south of Mädler. And I'm looking at Mädler now, and that stuff that makes the bright ray material going out the - to the east seems to come up to the rim. You can see it - It's brighter in that area along going down the - inside of the rim. Then there's a bright streak that runs across the central area, right across and up the other side. And then it sort of stops when it gets to the other rim. But there's a faint evidence of a - of another continuation of that streak.
And that's in Mädler?
That's in Mädler, yes.
Okay. In this higher Sun, it sure appears that the - the bright things that run down into - come out of the Descartes bright spot and run north, seem to be centered around - that's Dollond - I guess that's Dollond B or A - whatever that thing is. I tried to trace the boundaries and all this material that's in what we call the furrowed Descartes that runs up and it becomes part of Smoky Mountain. That material looks just exactly like most of that stuff on the back side, except it may be a little bit darker, and I think that's the Sun angle. That whole area has that same characteristic to me.
Roger.
You remember that northwest-southeast trending we saw in the vicinity of North Ray that looked like it was some offsets in those grabens? Can you see any of that in there?
Just a second. I'm not sure about that. But it does appear to me as if the - the floor that the LM has landed on is indeed a different unit that sticks in, and it's more part of this Cayley material that's farther out to the - to the west. And it does go back just about the way we had drawn the boundaries. Say again your question?
I just remember on a plotter, we looked at what appeared to be some graben that came across Smoky Mountain and down to the southeast of it and going back up the northwest. And they were all offset like they may have been some faulting in that area.
Okay. Well, I'm not sure what that all is, Hank. That same texture that has many patterns and linear lines and they make a kind of a hash, but that same thing appears all over the - the surface when you look at it in detail. I think I can probably take a picture of most any one of these places down here and analyze it in depth and come up with a very similar picture. And especially the things on the back side look exactly like that Descartes area. It's just that Descartes area is a very small place. And you see so much on the back side that covers that same kind of thing.
John and Charlie reported - I guess it's just south of - between where the LM landed and - and Stone Mountain - what appeared to be subdued crater that was some 300 meters in diameter and maybe 50 meters deep that didn't show on our map. Were you able - Can you detect something like that?
You know, there's so much noise down there, Hank, I can hardly understand you. Would you say again? Sounds like you're trying to shout over a football game.
Roger. I'll try again, I guess. John and Charlie reported a very large crater, maybe some 300 meters in diameter, that was between the LM site and Stone Mountain. They were on their way back from Station 8, and this thing wasn't on their maps, but it was very obvious to them as they were driving.
I'll look and see. I really hadn't taken the time to compare features just one by one.
Ken, could you give us a barber pole on Image Motion?
Okay, barber pole on the IMC.
That's one I - slipped by...
There it is.
me when I got to talking.
I'm sorry. Say again?
I let that one slip by me when I got to talking to you about the landing site.
Uh-oh. I think you'd go a long ways before you get very far behind.
Casper, Houston.
Go ahead, Hank.
Roger. So far, we haven't seen anything - a smear or anything requesting that urine dump by itself. So that thing is still in question. Your next urine dump would be scheduled for 20 hours from now. But it's also scheduled in conjunction with a water dump, et cetera. So I don't know where that thing stands. We're gonna check into it.
Okay. It'll probably take me another 20 hours to make it worthwhile.
Roger (laughter).
Golly.
Okay, Hank. I got a better visual on that little thing we called a cone, and I guess it looks like it is a crater in the top of it. And from where I am, it looks like the southern end of it, which is away from me, probably has just about reached down level with the mare floor. The rest of it is just a smooth cone that sticks up. It does have some small craters on it. The rim looks relatively sharp, and there's a couple of fractures go through it. Its texture and albedo do not look significantly different than the mare around it. There is a little expression of perhaps a subtle depression around the eastern side of it that looks like it might be a little flow characteristic there. I'm going to shift my gaze down to these other two features, and I guess - my guess is I really had those things reversed. They in fact were shallow craters.
Hey, that does sound more like a little vein or a cone to me.
Well, it just looks so much like all the rest of the things around here, Hank. The texture of the surface looks like it is all the same. The flanks of it are fairly steep though. And it's got one of the sharper rims for a raised rim crater of any that I've seen.
And as we come over here - we're coming up on the Fra Mauro, Bonpland, and Parry combination, and I think that's - that's Parry that has - looks like two - almost right-angle rilles running through it.
I'm looking at Rima Parry. I don't remember the number. It's the western one that runs out of Fra Mauro. And it seems like it is more than just my imagination that says that the floor of that stuff is indeed smoother than the - has fewer large craters than you see in the surrounding areas, although it's pretty close to being equal in small craters.
Casper, you're coming up on T-stop.
Okay, it's Off for 30 seconds.
Okay, Mapping Camera's going to Standby. The Image Motion is Off. Barber pole and gray. Laser Altimeter is Off.
Mass Spec Ion Source, On?
And the Ion Source is On.
And did I hear you say Image Motion, Off?
That's affirmative.
Okay, I guess...
And Alpha X-Ray Cover coming to Closed.
Okay, I guess that about cleans that up...
And it's Closed.
Okay, Casper. I have a - a - a block data PAD for you and some Flight Plan changes.
Okay. Why don't you start with the Flight Plan changes.
Okay. At 151 hours, and - we want to - let's see, 151...
Hey, Hank. Hey, Hank. Have you got two loops punched up? Have you got two loops punched up? The noise is getting louder and louder. It sounds like I got - I'm trying to listen to you over a football game. And I can hardly hear you over the din of everything else. I don't know whether you need to hold the mike closer to your mouth, or whether you got another loop punched up and I'm getting cross-feed.
Okay. Let's try again, Ken. How do you read now?
That sounds a little better.
Okay. I've told them to hold it down a little, too. At 151 hours, the SIM code should be "Plus 1110, 01222."
Okay. That's "Plus 1110, 01222."
Roger. And right at 151, over to the left of that, write "Configure comm per S-band with VHF bistatic."
Now that's a real long bunch of switch settings there. Do you want me to read them all off? Or your - I can give you a procedure on page...
Yeah, why don't you give me the page that it was on in the old Flight Plan in Volume 1...
Okay. Page 311, at about 202 hours and 37 minutes, if you want to turn to that.
Okay. Let's do that. That'll save copying an awful lot, I think.
Okay. You want to look at that right now? I got one small change.
Well, I almost got it. The old - Oh, wait a minute. You - What page did you give me?
Page 311. It's 202 hours and 40 minutes.
Ah so. It's the same volume I'm in. We passed the other volume and I went back for that. Okay. All right, 311. You're ahead of me. Okay, I got it.
Okay, this is the only bistatic we gonna do. Start where it says, "Configure comm" and end where it says, "S-Band Antenna, High Gain, Manual, Wide." And the only change in there is that the VHF antenna should be "Left" instead of "Right." We're in a different attitude.
Okay. I start where it says, "Configure comm for S-band." And I stop where - including, I assume, the high gain settings.
Negative. We got different high gain settings...
VHF antenna left instead of right. Okay. You got different high gains. All right; thank you.
Okay. If you'll turn back down to 151, I'll give you that high gain. It's "Pitch, 20 - plus 20; YAW, 209."
Okay. That's "Pitch, plus 20; Yaw, 209."
Roger. And verify the DSE as "Low Bit Rate, Forward, Forward, Command Reset."
Okay. We'll verify "Low Bit Rate" and recording.
Okay. And on that same page where it says "CSM...
You want me to verify or do you want me to configure?
Configure.
I say, do you want me to verify that DSE or do you want me to configure?
Configure, Ken.
Okay.
Okay. Right under that about 151:02, delete all that - that block about the lunar horizon. In other words, starting with the little block with CSM checklist all through - right on down through "Set Omni D."
Okay. That's all deleted.
At 51:10, "P00." And following that, "Alpha Particle/X-Ray Cover, Open."
Okay. At 151:10, we go to "P00" and "Alpha/X-Ray Cover, Open."
At 151:20, "Verb 49 maneuver to bistatic attitude." And that attitude is "221, 138, 000."
Okay. At 151:20, we go "Verb 49 to bistatic; attitude, 221, 138, 000."
All right. Delete the UV photo PAD block. Delete the acquire MSFN and all that stuff there - the lunar horizon, that comment. At 151:30, next page -
Okay.
And write small. "P20, Option 2. Noun 78, plus 270.00, minus 040.63."
Boy, Hank. That comm is just terrible.
Okay. We're having trouble in here, Ken. Everybody is yelling and hollering. We'll get them quieted down.
Okay, repeat. "Noun 78 is plus 270.00, minus 040.63. Noun 79, minus 0.0830, plus 000.50. Noun 34, plus 00.151, plus 0.0034, plus all zips."
Okay. That says at 151:30, we go "P20, option 2. Noun 78 is plus 270.00 and minus 040.63. Noun 79, minus 0.0830, plus 000.50. Noun 34 is 151, 34, 00."
That's correct, Ken. And as you can probably deduce from the Noun 34, right at 151:34, you should say "Start pitch rate." And the attitude for that is "221, 114 underlined slash 138, 000."
Okay. That's - that sounds reasonable. Let me ask you one question about this antenna. I've got a - a little discrepancy between the - the set knobs that I have and the feedback read-outs that I get off the instrument panel. This is on the high gain settings.
Roger.
Can anyone tell me if it matters which I use, and which one I should use if it matters.
Okay, I'll get that answered while I read you the next.
Okay. Read on.
Okay. Delete the rest of the things on that page.
Okay.
And, from - next page, 152 to 152:30, delete all of that.
Okay.
Next page, 152:30. Delete everything down to where it says "GDC align" at about 152:52.
Okay.
And at - back up at 152:41, out to the side there, you can write it - add "P00, discontinue Bistatic Radar. VHF Range, Off; VHF A and B, Off." And then "Return your S-Band Mode Ranging to Ranging."
Okay. At 152:40, you go to "P00, discontinue the Bistatic, VHF Range, Off; VHF A and B, Off; S-Band Mode to Ranging."
Roger. And at 152:53, you'll pick up the nominal Flight Plan again. And at - Go to the top of the next page up there, at 153:00. That experiment status code now should be "Minus all 1s and 01222."
Okay.
At 153:15, delete the "Mass Spec, Ion Source, On." It's already On.
All right.
And, Ken, back up at the top - at 153 even, right at the top of the page, "Configure DSE to High Bit Rate, Command Reset."
Okay. "Configure DSE, High Bit Rate, Command Reset" at 153 even.
And I think that's all of it.
Okay. I guess the thing that seems to me like it might be missing here is where you're gonna get - Well, you've got me setting my DSE to high bit rate over here at 153. I guess we'll get some of that, won't we? Because we - we've had it running with no dump...
Roger. We've been running in low bit rate.
side, and I didn't stop the bistatic until after - That's right - low bit rate - but I didn't stop the bistatic until after LOS. So you're gonna get about half of this in low bit rate and about half of it in high. Okay?
Roger.
I - I guess I got it straight.
Okay, Ken. I got some more words on that question you had about - where I said verify the DSE with the bistatic. That should be - should be "verify" rather than "configure."
Okay. Let me see where that is now. Okay, that's at 151. That's "verify."
Roger. Because you're going to configure it here at LOS. And the word is on the - the high gain angles, believe your meter.
Okay. I'll use the meters.
And some more on this configure. We're coming up here on LOS. Apparently, it's important that the DSE be configured on a - a time. It depends on when they start to rewind. So for this rev, they want you to configure the DSE at 150:45.
Okay. 150:45 as opposed to 43. All righty.
And, Ken, I got one more thing for you, a TEI PAD, a block data.
Okay. Stand by while I get my other book.
Okay. I'm ready to copy.
Okay, Ken. And to let you know what's going on here, we were going to give you a TEI-54 PAD, and they're jockeying around - and - because of the plane change. And the plane change is gonna come about 169 hours. So they're gonna give you a TEI-48 PAD now, and give you a TEI-55 PAD at about 164 hours. So this'll be TEI-48, SPS/G&N; 38620; plus 0.59, plus 1.25; 168 -
Hank, I - I can't hear you again. How about asking - asking the comm guy downstairs if he can patch it differently or something. It hasn't sounded like this until just the last - oh, I've been noticing it the last couple of revs, but this thing - I can't even understand you.
Ken, how do you read now?
Well, that little burst was good, Hank.
Okay, let's try it again. There's been a lot of noise in the room...
No, you're getting drowned out again.
Okays Ken. We'll try it again...
Hanks it sounds just like the other loops are -
Can you read me all right now, Ken?
No, I can't, Hank. It's - it's - Unkey your mike a second. Let me tell you what it sounds like. It - it sounds like that we've got the other loop - the other air-to-ground or the Flight Director's loop or something like that that's got a Vox key that comes on, and I don't hear it when you make a short statement. But when you're on for - and hold it down for any length of time, then all this other talking comes on, and it sounds like I can probably hear Tony and I'm not sure who all else. Nothing is very clear. It is exceptionally noisy, and it just sounds like - sounds like trying to hold a conversation in a football game - is what it sounds like. And it's been - it's been annoying, but now it's getting to the place where I can't even read you.
Okays it - it must be coming from somewhere else, Ken. We've got everybody in the room real quiet now.
Yeah, I - I don't think it's possible (laughter) for all that noise to be coming through from your open mike. That's the reason I wanted to see if Comm Tech could chase it out or something.
Okay. We're about 2 minutes from LOS. I don't guess we're going to be able to get this PAD to you, and we're not going to see you for another rev, about 3 hours.
Okay. Well, I'm not gonna - I'm not gonna burn TEI-48 in the meantime, anyhow. But I can't - I'm not gonna copy you properly if I can't hear you.
Okay. We'll work on this thing and see if we can't have it better when we get comm here in a rev and a half.
All right. Thank you very much, Hank.
Do you - do you still have the noise while we're talking now?
Yes, sir. It doesn't come on immediately as soon as you start to talk. It - it builds up slowly, like you start to talk and then it takes about 1001, 1002, and then it comes on like a big rush. And it just swells up and after a couple of seconds, you're completely drowned out.
Okay. It must be in the lines. They're checking now.
All right. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
And I promise we won't go anywhere in the meantime.
Okay.
And, Ken, if you still read, we think we got your Flight Plan squared away until you go to sleep tonight. There won't be any more major changes.
Hello, Casper; Houston. Standing by.
Hello, there. How are you doing?
Oh, I'm pressing along. Ken, we'd like - we saw some funnies on our - on that bistatic, and I'd like to verify the position of the VHF antenna.
It was in the Left position.
Okay. That takes care of that question.
And, Ken, awhile ago you were reporting loud background noise. We'd like to ask you how the comm is now.
Sounds great.
Okay.
What did you do?
We asked you what the comm was, and that fixed it.
And, Ken, any time you're ready, I've got some Flights Plan updates. We lied to you while ago when I said we were through for the day. And I've got a TEI-48 PAD.
Okay. Why don't you give me the Flight Plan first.
All right. Let's go to 154:30.
All righty.
Okay; and the reason why we're doing this is the cabin is coming up a little bit and we're going to open the waste stowage vent valve for approximately an hour. So at 154:30, we're adding "Waste Stowage Vent valve, open."
Okay. I guess I'm just not breathing hard enough, huh?
Oh, man, just great metabolism there. And over at 155:30, we can add "Waste Stowage Vent valve, Closed."
Okay. "Waste Stowage Vent, Closed" at 155:30.
Okays, that will be one step off your pre-sleep checklist there, see. And after the pre-sleep checklist, we'd like to add "Accept VHF." And what we're gonna do here is get you configured for the VHF bistatic test during your sleep period, so disregard the VHF part of your pre-sleep. And at 155...
You want to give me a complete...
Yeah, we can do that. The time on that is 155:36 and you've got about six or seven lines; you might want to come out to the left there.
Okay, all set.
Okay. And there at 36, we'll delete the two steps, the one with the VHF that you see, the "VHF AM T/R, Receive (Panel 9)" and delete the "VHF AM A, Duplex." And then add Configure for VHF bistatic test, VHF AM T/R, three, to Receive (verify). VHF AM A, Off (verify). VHF AM B, Duplex (verify)." And "VHF Range to Range. And VHF Antenna, Right." And also right, all at the same time, Ken, right here around 155:35, we'd like to - Didn't leave you much room to write - we'd like to configure for a 2½ degree deadband test. So at 155:35, we'd like "CMC, Free; P20, Noun 79, plus 00250," and then we'll go back to "Auto." Well, are you still with me, Ken, or did I leave you back on the waste stowage vent valve.
Let's see. I guess the last thing I heard was "Are you there." (Laughter)
Yeah. Houston standing by.
Right (laughter). And at about 155:30, we go to Free, take P20 and narrow the deadband to 2½ degrees, then go back to Auto. We take the VHF, verify VHF panels are all three to Receive. We take the VHF AM A, Off, the VHF AM B to Duplex, the Ranging to Range, and the Antenna to Right.
Okay, and you, you're not going to do anything in the pre-sleep checklist with the VHF, because we've just given you all these others, and you deleted those two steps that were in there.
Yes, sir.
Okay. Now let's go over to 164:10, which you'll see in the morning.
Okay, 164:10.
Okay, we'd like to add "Terminate VHF bistatic test. VHF AM B, Off," and "VHF Ranging, Off."
Okay. Terminate the bistatic at 164:10, VHF AM B, Off, and Range, Off.
Okay, and that's all the Flight Plan updates for tonight as of this moment.
You've got to be kidding.
Unh-unh. I've been known to lie, though.
(Laughter) You sure have. Hey, you mentioned something yesterday about the general scheme of things to come.
That's right.
Is that still sort of on tap?
Yeah, that's it pretty much. I thought somewhere along this pass we'd give you a little more detail, Specifically, on what we'd be doing tomorrow, and maybe give you times of PC1 and lift-off and so forth.
Okay. I got to thinking about it some last night, and the one thing I thought about is - I understand the desire to keep the day down to some reasonable number. If we still have to put our suits on to jettison the LM the next day, that's gonna chew up quite a few hours. And if that doesn't make any difference, why that's okay, if there's nothing else for us to do during those hours. But it seems like that's - to take those suits off and then put them back on and take them off again, with three guys in here it becomes a real big operation. I guess that sort of, would seem to me, might be an option that maybe John would have an opinion on when he gets back tomorrow.
Okay. We copy that, Ken. just stand by a minute.
Okay. I'm not proposing you change it. I'm just suggesting you consider the big flap that goes on when three guys have to suit up in here.
Yeah, I guess. We're certainly aware of that, Ken, and the name of the game on this one is going to be dock with the LM and transfer across with just a minimum transfer, bring the rock boxes and your suits and the box, and that's about it. And then the next day, complete the LM transfer and so forth. The name of the game is to get to bed. And that's why the decision is made that way.
Okay. All right. That's just fine then.
Yeah, they've pretty well set a limit here that we're aiming at, Ken, and that's an 18-hour day, considering the EVAs and your long day. So that's about the only way it would work.
Okay.
And along that way tomorrow - we'll of course have the update for you later, but we are going to have to schedule a urine dump with the mass spec. So we'll get that.
Okay.
And you got Power and Standby on the Pan Camera.
Okay.
Gamma Ray Shield is Off.
Okay.
And you said you wanted to give me a PAD of some sort. Let me find a place to write that.
It'll be a little TEI-48 PAD.
Okay, that's what Hank was starting to give me when we bombed out last time.
That's affirmative.
Okay. All set, go ahead.
Okay. That'll be TEI-48, SPS/G&N; 38620; plus 0.59, plus 1.25; 168:51:56.94; plus 3052.2, plus 0704.2, minus 0137.4; 182, 117, 014. The rest of the PAD NA. Comments: the GDC align same as for circ; ullage, two jets, 17 seconds; longitude at T minus 172.00. Additional comments.
Okay, go ahead.
PAD based on loading site REFSMMAT, assumed no plane change.
All righty, that's TEI-48, SPS/G&N; 38620; plus 0.59, plus 1.25; 168:51:56.94; plus 3052.2, plus 0704.2, minus 0137.4; 182, 117, 014; GDC alignment goes with the circ PAD, two jets, 17 seconds. Lambda ignition, minus 172.00. PAD is based on the descent REFSMMAT, and no plane change.
Okay, that sounds like a good readback. We got that beauty in.
And, Ken, we'd like Pan Camera Power, Off, now.
Okay. Pan Camera Power's coming Off. And it's Off now.
Okay.
I got a chance to go back and look at the telescope on one of the last two revs, and found out the problem was that even after I had gone back and taped the eyepieces back on, they still had the tape on them, but the darned things had slipped out of focus with the telescope. And I guess it was far enough out of focus that it - the stars just weren't bright enough to show up. Because while I was sitting there looking in it I could focus it and then the stars would appear and disappear if I defocused it. So I refocused the eyepiece and the telescope works like you'd expect a telescope to work.
That little bit of troubleshooting sounds like another first for 16.
Well, I never would have thought about that thing coming off if I hadn't found the eyepiece floating by me one day.
Oh, now why did you blow your image.
What are the surface guys doing now - are they cleaning up after the EVA?
Roger. They're going through their cleanup, and they've had their debriefing, and I guess they're looking for them to try and be asleep in a couple of hours, or something like that.
Good show. How long was the EVA today? Seven and a half?
It was close to that, Ken, 07:23.
Oh, that's pretty good. Guess the little Rover did a good job.
Yeah, it, I didn't -
Hank just told me they found their way up to Cinco.
Yeah. I didn't get a chance to watch too much of that, but I did see one, when they were up on the southern point, they put the camera out on South Ray and it was just magnificent.
Oh. Save those tapes, I'd like to see that.
What kind of funny did you notice on the bistatic? Was it just not getting any VHF signal?
Well, we didn't have it initially, and then some of the words I heard was that we were getting a signal but it was not reflecting properly. And then we picked it up somewhere passing over the landing site and got some data. So I guess I'll have to get a better recap of - of that pass, but I guess - I guess the signal was there but just - just not hitting the right reflecting point.
Well, I'm just impressed that you can bounce a signal off the Moon that's as weak as this one and catch it back at Earth anyhow.
Yeah, and it's really not much of a switch, Ken, because we're going to run it through the night here anyway.
Okay. Hey, when I turn the waste vent on for an hour here, would it - would it make any difference to the mass spec people or anyone like that if I plugged in the black bag for a few minutes?
Stand by.
Okay, Ken, we have a Go from all hands to vent the bag.
Okay. We do appreciate that.
Roger.
What's your prognosis on the Pan Camera? Is it getting us any good data, or is it gonna be kind of sloppy?
Okay, Ken, we're - as I mentioned yesterday, it looks like we're overexposing about one f-stop, and there's a lot of, you know - we'll take that out in the processing, and everybody feels like the data is real good.
Outstanding.
And, Ken, as you whip by the site over there, if we could get you to put the Gamma Ray Shield on Center.
Okay. Do you want it now?
That's affirm.
Or did you want me to wait? Okay, here it comes.
Sorry about that.
It's on now.
Okay.
I was looking at the little dark halo craters around Mädler, and the one that's directly to the - yeah - east of Mädler has white streaks in it. I guess that's fair if - If light craters can bare dark streaks, I guess dark craters ought to be able to have light streaks in them. I don't know what that means to anybody.
Copy. That seems fair.
Here's a little beauty that's just - just to the south of the landing site. It's off a big tall dome, and it's got all this - a great white rayed crater in the top of it.
I'm looking at North Ray now, and it seems to me that that stuff that runs up on the North Ray comes right around the corner. It comes from out in the area back behind what we used to call the -
Just as I was coming up on the landing site that time, I saw this - little, very soft dome sitting up, and it's got this bright white ray crater right in the top of it. It's just like a - the crater itself looks like South Ray, and the - except it's built up on top of this nice little dome. And I don't know if that's coincidental, or what, but it sure is an interesting thing. The crater is about a third the size of the dome itself.
Roger. Copy.
And, Ken, have you been mumbling any geologic terms to yourself the last couple of passes?
No, sir. I - during that bistatic, I just kept quiet inside, too.
Okay. How were things around on the other side?
That was a good chance for me to - Yeah, that was a good chance for me to - to get caught up on all the housekeeping and loose ends, and kind of pick up some stuff here and there. That was a - a well needed break.
I certainly agree.
Hey, you know, looking down at this - this material that's to the north of Albatregius - Albategnius, that is - excuse me. That material, if you didn't have all these craters around it, that terrain scene could have been placed on the back side almost anywhere. Got exactly the same characteristics as the scene - everything about it's the same as a big share of what we call Cayley and other stuff.
Okay.
And the Cayley floor fill I see in Ptolemaeus. And all of these things look exactly like what you see in Mendeleev. I've been looking for something I could say was different. I don't see a thing.
Okay. That sounds like a good observation.
Look at Alphonsus. I'm looking at the eastern or the dark gray craters, the one that's almost due east of the central peak, the largest ring deposit there. And to the unaided eye, it stands out quite dramatically. When I put the binoculars on it, the difference is extremely subtle. You really have to look for it, and then it just turns out to be a slightly different color, but I can't say anything at all about any difference in textures or any other thing that's different except that there's a slightly different color to it. But it's more obvious to the unaided eye than it is to the eye with magnification.
Okay, Ken. I guess what you're trying to say is when you get too close to the forest you can't see the trees, huh?
That must be.
Looks like most of these medium-size craters out here in Cognitum are - they have raised rims, but they're very smooth raised rims, and they kind of - they have a convex instead of a concave side to them. It's - very much like the little suspected cone we saw next to Lassell C. It's just that he's by himself out there, and as you get into Cognitum you see quite a few that look just like that.
By Jove. We got that, Ken.
Okay. Maybe we could have drawn a terminator that was a little more over towards the area where we've shown our target, but there may be quite a drop-off in elevation here. It would only take - quite a bit, to the Sun angle wouldn't have to be an awful lot, on a geologic scale I guess. But the actual terminator was running down just to the west of Le Alda so I ran a strip down that.
Okay. We got that. You want to give us the frame number while you got it handy.
Okay. Good show. How about 84? [It is not clear which film magazine Ken is referring to here.
Okay; 84.
And, Casper; Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay, Ken, as far as tomorrow, you've got a full schedule of the SIM Bay and visuals and landmark tracking and so forth, I'm sure you don't want the details now. Would you be interested in the times of PC-1, lift-off and -
Yeah. Let me get my - let me get my little scratch pad out here and let you give a kind of a summary - of major events anyhow.
Okay. Go ahead.
Well, I don't want to - the first part of the day I really don't want to try to get into any details, Ken. It's - it's your standard P20 with a lot of Mapping Camera/Pan Cameras, and all the sensors we got - we got going. You're going to burn plane change 1 at 169 plus 40. That's - that's approximate times. And LM lift-off is approximately 175 plus 50. And I guess one in the middle there, too. Your - your landmark tracking will come at about 173:20, something in - in that order. And after docking - we're showing you...
Hey, that's landmark on the LM?
That's the landing site landmark.
Okay.
And we'd like to have Auto on the High Gain.
Right, you've got it.
Okay. And then as I said before after - after docking, at - at this time, we're showing you an hour and 30 minutes for the transfer. And then you'll come inside, have an eat period, and hopefully start the rest period. And your rest period will start at about...
Okay.
100 - and start at about 181:30, in that area, will be the rest period.
Okay. And the day starts about 164, was it?
That's affirmative. Around 164.
Okay. That's not so bad.
No. The way you've been swinging along up there doing all that good work, you'll just romp through that.
Well, I'll tell you, it was - it was kind of nice to just sit back and have that bistatic pass to catch up on all the things you've been putting off.
Yes. I know what you mean.
Okay, and since you reminded me of film, let me give you the - what I got on this DAC magazine too while I take it down. That'll save asking about it later. I have a - a feeling we may be quite a ways behind on our film status. Magazine II has - that'd be 20 - that's looks to me like 42 percent.
Okay. I copy. II, Item Item, and 42.0 percent.
yeah.
And I made it your last.
That's quite a bit off from the prediction. I wonder if I - I turned it on at the right time, and I turned it off at the right time.
Oh, I don't know, Ken. That's - that's within 18 percent.
(Laughter)
And, Ken, the word here is that they're not concerned about that percentage, just as long as you photograph the old mass spec.
Well, we photographed something that was pointed in that direction.
The - the bracket didn't break off, did it?
We took lots of photographs of it, whatever it was. (Laughter) No, I got worried, I knocked it once, and...
Well, if you dropped it, I'd of worried about the heat shield.
It is unbelievable. (Laughter) Well, I started to say I was worried about the spacecraft.
Probably get the pictures back and find that it has a natural frequency that's the same as the camera.
That's why they made it so big.
(Laughter) That thing wouldn't even vibrate on a Saturn V.
I think the part I liked most about this experiment was Chris Printer's little window shade.
It worked just fine, and it couldn't be simpler.
And, Ken, on your next time around, we're going to want to be talking a little bit about your rendezvous procedure, for tomorrow, and I guess we'll - as we mentioned before, we're recommending using SCS, and we've got some procedures marked up and we can give you as much detail as you want on them as for the switches, so you might want be thinking about that. And any questions about it.
Okay. I think what you told me yesterday sounds like a good plan. I - I don't think that's very difficult to remember. It goes - it's straightforward enough. It goes right along with operating without an IMU except you have the luxury of having all that nice manoeuvre for you.
Yeah, Ken, it - you know - we talked about a couple of little pitfalls there, you know, of going to CMC control with the SCS - I mean with the Optics switch in Manual and that type thing, and we would like to go through your procedures and stick in a couple of steps that would result, you know, in that wrong procedure. Now, as far as the details on where you put your SCS switches and so forth, I've got a starting plan worked out. I don't know how much detail you want on that - on that sort of thing or just turn you loose and try to do it in SCS.
Oh, I'll take all the thoughts that you got, Stu.
Okay. We'll - we'll probably give you those on your - we will give you those on your next time around so you can cogitate on them.
Okay.
I'd hardly be the Government's hero if I over-torqued my Dukesons on the rendezvous.
Well, that's - that's the one thing you've always got to watch out for. That and Check 6.
And, Ken, a reminder on your Waste Stowage Vent valve.
Gee, thank you. Is it that time? It sure is.
Ken, have you got any bright planets in your view in that double umbra? Isn't that something - really a beautiful sight, isn't it?
Hey, you know, I haven't - hadn't gotten around to looking for planets. That's what I was doing the other night when - when things went to worms, and I decided they're probably trying to tell me something. It really is pretty out there, the way you can see all those stars. They - they really stand out. Looks like a planetarium, there's so many.
And, Casper, we're about 2 minutes to LOS, and we'll see you on the other side.
All righty. See you in a little bit.
Casper, Houston standing by.
Hello there.
Greetings.
Well, how did old Kohlschuetter look, Ken?
Like a big mountain.
Ah so.
This is one of these things where that - that strip was planned for the - the ground track post plane change. And, of course, we were further south at the time than was intended, so it didn't fit very well. It was really scrunched up in the corner. I don't know whether that's really going to be any help or not. But there is - Try it and maybe it'll come out okay.
There can't be any bad pictures of the Moon.
(Laughter) That's right. When you've got nothing, a little goes a long ways.
Okay. We're about to wind it down, Ken. Only two things I have for you is to go over the rendezvous procedures and I'll let you get on through your pre-sleep checklist and - and wipe it out for the day.
Sounds like a good plan. Why don't we go through your - your little plan first?
Okay. If you're ready, go over to 171:40 and you'll have your pro - procedures there.
Okay, 100 and let's - 140 - let's see, before I get over there, you want me to - Oh, you'll remind me to come back to the shift the deadband. Okay. Okay, I'm at 171:40.
Okay. And in that space in between that update and the LM lift-off is a nice place to write. Let's put in there first, "Optics Mode, CMC, verify." Underneath that, let's write a note. "Spacecraft Control must be in SCS prior to Optics Mode, Manual." I'm just reminding you of the note that - that we passed on the other night, Ken.
That's just fine.
Okay. And then come on down after LM lift-off, and where you have P34, delete the "CMC Mode, Hold." And delete the next line, "Set Noun 79," et cetera. Okay, and we'd like to add in here, and it will be four lines, so you might start out kind of small, "Spacecraft Control, SCS; BMAG Mode, 3, Att 1/Rate 2."
All righty. And then, next line, "Attitude Deadband, Max; Rate, Low; and Limit Cycle, On." That's all on that page.
Okay. Let me read that back to you, then. Between the update and lift-off, I've got "Optics Mode to SMC, verify." And the note that "Spacecraft Control must be in SCS prior to Optics Mode going to Manual. Following lift-off, next to the Verb 88, "Spacecraft Control, SCS; BMAG Mode, 3, Att 1/ Rate 2; Deadband, Max; Limit Cycle, On; and Rate, Low."
Okay, that's affirmative.
Okay. Go to the next page, Ken.
All set.
Okay. Down here at 172:10, delete "CMC Mode Auto."
Okay.
Okay, now, Ken. This is just a couple of words on dealer's choice. Now as you recall from running this in your attitude, right here at about 172:13, your trunion is down through about 22 degrees. And, of course, there you were going Auto. Now they tell me the way you had been flying the SCS rendezvous, that you'd just stay in an Att Hold and let the trunion. If you want to here, you could put the Pitch BMAG to Rate 2 and just bang it once. But I - I'm not gonna give you any - any changes of Flight Plan on that. That's just your option on how you want to keep the trunion angle.
Okay. I'll write a note here to watch for that, at that point.
Yeah, your trunion will be - if you're right on nominal - will be 22 degrees right around - oh, somewhere in the order of 172:12 there.
Okay, and then down at the bottom there, prior to - in between the "MSFN disables" and the "P34 final comp," I want you to write in, "Optics Mode, CMC." And this is just a reminder.
Okay, between "MSFN disables" and "final comp," we'll write in, "Optics Mode to CMC." I've added the note at the top - at 172:10 - to watch for trunion increasing greater than 22 and BMAG, at least the Pitch one, can go to Rate and give it a blip.
Okay, that's just - that's just one way of doing it, and it - it works real good and it does not take a large rate in there, just - just about 1 or 2 at the most of what would be a minimum impulse fire.
Okay, the only reason I had been using Att Hold before was because we were simulating loss of - of the IMU; and, in that case, I wanted to use the attitude gyros because they had less drift. And it made the marking simpler; but, in this case, I might as well let it - give it a burp and let it track along.
Okay, that's the way I ran them and the - the line of sight rates are - are pretty low, and it's just sort of one of these no-sweat things. Just about one fast blip and then it - it just hangs right there.
Very good.
Okay, and you've got your Optics Mode, CMC, down here toward the bottom. We'll turn the page.
All right, I'm with you.
Okay, now, Ken, here's - It - This gets kind of messy through here so you might try to write small. And the only thing we're trying to do is, of course, get into P40 and take the auto maneuver, set up for the SCS burn, get back into track attitude, and then back to SCS. And the way we'll do that is we'll take the first line, "Cycle CMC Mode, Free, Auto," and delete it.
Okay.
Okay. And then, after P40, write "Spacecraft Control, CMC." And next line, "BMAG Mode, parenthesis 3, Rate 2." And I want to make a note there, Ken. I mean this is not for you to write down, unless you want to, but you'll be tracking along here, and you might be a little out of the preferred track attitude. And if you go into Spacecraft Control to CMC before you get to the burn program, the CMC will try to take you back to the preferred attitude, and you're just wasting an RCS maneuver. So wait until after you're in the burn program to go to CMC, and that's - that's true also of P41 for the mid-courses.
Okay, that's a good note.
Okay, and down here where it says "SPS checklist," we're deleting that only because your SPS cue card is - is marked up so bad. And so, the - the reason why - Let's - let's at least say you don't use the cue card as written, which you wouldn't, but we just want to make that point. And in the space in there between "Compare solution in TPI," I've got three lines for you. The first one is, "Spacecraft Control, SCS, after auto manoeuvre." The next line is, and here again this is sort of superfluous, but it's "BMAG Mode, 3, Att 1/Rate 2." And then, just to sum it all up, could we add a note, "Use SCS burn procedures, if required.
And here again, I'll - this is not for you to write down null - unless you want to, Ken. It's a personal reminder that we talked about before, that, if you Enter on that 204 display before going to SCS, you have activated the - the relay.
Okay. I think I will just put another little note out here.
Okay.
Okay. If I am in SCS control, though, I can - I can afford to do an Enter on 204?
That's affirmative. If you're in SCS control, you have no power to that relay. It comes through the Spacecraft Control switch, and it...
Okay. That was my impression.
and it must be in CMC, so you cannot get the activation of the relay as long as you're in SCS.
Okay.
All righty.
I can still have good navigation through the CMC.
That's - that's affirmative. You mean - you mean - you mean the navigation programs?
Onboard state vector, in the event that you did a burn?
Oh. What you want to do is - is go on into P40 and stay in P40, and then trim - trim your residuals under - out on the G&N.
Roger. That's what I was - that's what I wanted to get at.
Yeah. And then here's...
The only thing I have to do is make the actual burn itself under SCS control.
What we want you to do is be in SCS control when you respond to that 204 display and make the burn in SCS. And now, here again, I'm going to bring up another little pitfall. You want - down after TPI, you want to wait until the flashing 16 85 comes up before you go back to CMC. Now, you know, TPI is a short burn and you could very well burn in SCS on time and have a 99 flashing up there. Go on, get through that, and get into your flashing 16 85 before you return the - the Spacecraft Control to CMC. At least, by that, is what I'm trying to say, Ken.
Okay.
Okay. And that summarizes my next line, it just was "Flashing 16 85," then "Spacecraft Control to CMC" and it was just trying to get across what I just told you in words; and, if you made the burn, why, null your residuals.
Okay. And the - if it's all nominal, there really shouldn't be any manoeuvre there at all for - to attitude for the first midcourse.
That - that's affirmative. It's - it's generally not. And what - the way the procedures show it, if you want to be technically correct is, prior to P35, reminding you of your BMAGs again - BMAG Mode, 3, to Rate 2. Then go ahead into P35 and - generally, I don't come up with a - with a greater-than-10-degree maneuver, but sometimes it - it dresses up the - the preferred track, there. So...
Roger.
Okay. Then after P35, we have "BMAG Mode, 3, Att 1/Rate 2 after manoeuvre."
Okay.
Okay. "Attitude Deadband, Max" is next line. And the next line after that is "Spacecraft Control to SCS." And if you want to write you down a little note beside that "Before Optics Manual."
Okay.
And stand by one - That's okay, Ken. Okay, let's come on down here to P35, and delete "Cycle CMC Mode, Free to Auto."
Okay.
Okay. And let's - Just before that P35 final comp, just because it's an easy place to write it, let's put it down "Optics Mode, CMC."
Okay. Got that.
Okay, then after P41, we'll put "Spacecraft Control, CMC." And now here, Ken, since it's - We never take the manoeuvre, but just to cover all cases on the - on the P41, after "Spacecraft Control, CMC," we can put down "BMAG MODE, 3, Rate 2," since we are running a little out of configuration.
Okay.
Okay. Then, Ken, after - after the Midcourse 1 through P76, P35, and we're just about through with these. We'll have "BMAG Mode, 3, Att 1/Rate 2 after manoeuvre." And the next line is "Spacecraft Control, SCS, before Optics, Manual." And that takes care of that page.
Okay.
All right. If you want to turn the page, we're just about home. Right before the P35 final comp, we'll put "Optics Mode, CMC." And after the P35 final comp, we'll delete the line, "Cycle CMC Mode, Free, Auto." And then after P41, "Spacecraft Control, CMC." And our last entry then, "BMAG Mode, 3, Rate 2." And that was a lot of talking, Ken, but that will keep the BMAGs where they're supposed to be and the relay where it's supposed to be.
And it was all worth it. Okay, suppose - suppose I read that all back to you?
Okay.
Okay, we already covered the...
Ken, about...
And I'll go to Attitude - Yes, go ahead.
Okay. Could we interrupt here before your readback, and we've got your jet-on monitor loads but - Stand by one. Yeah, what we'd like for you to do is go to the 2½ degree deadband - there's that change that we had, and then they can be uplinking while you're reading back.
Okay, I'll do that. Just a second here.
Okay, we're in the 2½-degree deadband and you've got Accept.
Okay, jolly good, and I'm ready for the readback.
Okay, let me mark off what I did here. Okay, before lift-off, we'll end up with - making sure that the CMC has control of the optics; we'll fly with the CMC to the initial attitude, then we'll go to SCS Control; BMAGS, 3, Att 1/Rate 2; Max, Deadband; Limit Cycle, On; and Rate, Low. Then we'll do our initial tracking there. And we'll stay with that and 172:10 when the normal auto manoeuvres would be enabled, I - I'll probably take the Pitch BMAG to Rates and start a small rate in there.
Yeah, that'll be just one small blip.
Roger.
Okay, and just before the final comp on P34, we put the Optics Mode to CMC. Let the P34 finish and once I'm in P40, I give the Spacecraft Control to CMC; BMAGs, 3, to Rate 2; and accept the manoeuvre. When I'm in Attitude, I can go back and do SCS control; BMAGs, 3, Att 1/Rate 2; and, should a burn be required, I'll make an SCS auto burn. I'll null the G&N residuals, still remaining in SCS control. I'll proceed past the Noun 85 before returning control to G&N. And it'll be BMAGs, three, to RATE 2 when I get - I think the safest place is when I get in - all the way into P35. When I get it - there, I'll return Spacecraft Control to CMC and take the manoeuvre. Go back to SCS control; BMAGs, Att 1/Rate 2, all 3. Deadband, Max; then I'll take Spacecraft Control, SCS; and then Optics to Manual. Prior to the final comp, we go Optics Mode to CMC. Again, at P41, we'll hold Spacecraft Control to CMC, and I'll be bypassing the manoeuvre. And I - But if we - if we take the manoeuvre, it's BMAGs, 3 to Rate 2. Again, we'll proceed all the way through it; and, when I get into P35, I'll take the BMAGs back to Att 1/Rate 2; and give Spacecraft Control to SCS. Then, Optics to Manual. Same procedure for Midcourse 2, except that at the completion of Midcourse 2, why, I'll just stay in SCS - I mean, CMC.
Okay, Ken. Couple of comments there, now. I guess how you trim the residuals is sort of dealer's choice. Once you're in that flashing 16 85 display, why, you can go to CMC freely. So you can play that any way you want.
Okay, but I might just as well stay in SCS. That's a simpler - and one less number that I'm likely to confuse.
Okay, now let me - and your - your readback was - was okay. There is something now that I'll say - after the P35 where you have BMAG Mode, 3, Att 1/Rate 2; okay, if the - the CMC will start you on a good track rate; I just didn't want to get the procedures too clowned up; but, you know if you put your Pitch BMAG to Rate 2 there, before you go to SCS, you'll keep in your CMC track. Now you'll be below the rate at which you're maneuvreing, but you - between TPI and Midcourse 1, you'll exceed your - your attitude deadband. So, since you did say you were going to go - to go on the track method, people talked me out of when they said you always did the other one, but I think you should put a note in there, BMAG Roll and Yaw, Att 1/Rate 2, and Pitch BMAG to - I mean Roll and Yaw, Att 1/Rate 2 and leave your Pitch in Rate 2. Did all that talking make sense?
Okay. That sounds like a good plan. Yes, sir; I understand you.
Okay. And that would also be true after the other P35.
Roger.
And just so we make sure that all procedures showing the same - I'm - I'm changing mine to show that, Ken.
Okay. I have mine changed, too.
Okay. And I think that's it. I thought before the rendezvous, we'd - we'd give you a swinging Delta tail off just for your weight even though you've got a chart. Just so you wouldn't have to do any figuring out. Of course, 11 is always a good number, but, just to be professional, we'll give you a good one - and since you are making an SCS burn.
Thank you. I was going to ask you for that. It's really not quite the same as if you had SCS only because you got the information there what's the right thing; but it sure helped to - be a lot cheaper about your RCS.
Roger. We might as well be professional about this whole show, since you're doing such a good job up there.
Hey, there's one other thing I was going to ask you. Yeah. About the Mapping Camera. Are we going to leave it out or we going to try and retract it?
Stand by.
Ken, the SIM Bay is configured for sleep. As of right now.
Oh, I'm sorry, I - I'm - I'm still thinking about rendezvous.
Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. Stand by.
Okay, Ken, we're going to retract the camera for rendezvous, extend it again, and then we'll retract it for TEI.
Okay. I guess since we're a little down on the RCS that might be a prudent plan. Looks like we're holding our own, if it hadn't been for that practice in formation flying.
Ken, as far as the Flight Plan now - the - the new revised version, we're 15 pounds ahead of the - of the Flight Plan. And we're fat on the - on the rescue redline.
Okay. That sounds a little bit like changing the specs.
(Laughter) Well, you got to - you got to be fast on your feet. And we're 168 (pounds) above the rescue redline.
Okay. I will continue to be miserly.
By all means, and we are minus 139 on the other Flight Plan.
Roger.
Okay. And I guess that takes care of our - of our rendezvous procedures. And sounds like you got them all copied in good order and I feel certain that'll go real easy for you. That's a - that's a smooth procedure even though it takes a lot of talking. And I guess I might remind you about your Waste Storage Vent valve at this time - if you haven't already got it.
I've already turned it Off, Stuart.
Okay. I thought maybe if I talked to you long enough you might - you might miss that; but I didn't catch you.
Okay. Well, I think I'm gonna configure myself to sleep.
Okay. That's - that's all we have and we'll - Well, I guess we got maybe a couple of things there on the onboard read-outs and after that it'll be - we're through.
Okay. Let me give you those little guys right now. Start with the RCS: quad A, 61 percent; quad Bravo, 59; Charlie, 66; Delta, 67; Battery C is 36.5, Pyro Battery A is 36.7, Battery B is 36.7.
Okay. We've got all those, and the computer is yours; you can go back to Block.
Okay. And, let's see, did you start the - Yes, you've got my monitor running. Thank you, sir.
We aim to please.
You guys do that.
Okay, I'm going to hush and leave you with the Flight Plan and let you get some rest; and tomorrow's going to be a big day. And we'll see you around.
Okay, Stu. Thanks a lot. Good night.
Roger.
Stu, would you folks like to have E-memory dump?
Could you stand by one for us, Ken?
Sure thing.
Okay. Ken, we're ready for the E-memory dump, and Big Brother is looking over your shoulder. We notice...
You're kidding.
you're in SCS Control.
Thank you, Big Brother.
And, Casper; Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay, somebody's moved the secular point on us, Ken, and we'd like to verify the VHF in the Right Antenna; and, if it is, we'd like to go to the Left Antenna for 3 minutes. And you give me a mark and I'll give you a call.
Okay, it is in the Right. I'm going to move it to the Left. Stand by.
Mark. It's in the Left.
Okay, understand Left.
I can't imagine who'd do something like move something like that.
You know, it's getting where you can't trust anybody these days, not even Newton.
Okay, Casper, if you'd give us VHF Right Antenna and we are going to leave it in Right Antenna.
Okay.
