Okay, it's unlatched.
That's affirmative. Okay, there. It's unlatched. you. Okay.
Okay, what do I do now? I've put the handle up and - Okay, it's set on L. It's stowed. I am. I am. It's stowed. How about the gear box? Okay, gear box is to latch. Okay. My inner visor is down. Okay.
Okay. How about if I get rid of the jett bag first? Okay. Yep. Yep.
Bye-bye, bag. Okay. Okay, I'll go out and get the TV.
Ooh! Charlie, you'll need the outer visor as soon as you get into the hatch.
Okay.
You can use the visor shade, too, when you get out. How's that?
Oh, just me (laughter).
I did. Sorry about that (laughter). Oh-no. Okay, where's the camera? Yeah, get my - I've got to get my umbilical up here first, John.
Charlie, could you check and see if the Glycol mixing valve got bumped into Auto, the Temp In?
John, you can check that.
In Manual.
Roger; copy Manual.
Yeah, the Glycol Evaporator Temp In is in Manual.
John, I'm hung up on some cable there.
There it is.
Yeah. All right. I will when I get here. Looks like it's hung up on something there.
16, if you'll take the Temp In switch to Auto, please.
Okay.
Okay, back to Manual on the Temp In.
I need some more cable there, Charlie.
Yep.
Roger; you verify you're in Manual in Temp In?
Yeah, that's affirmative.
Charlie, I'm going to have to back in here so I can get a little better grip. I've got to turn the pole around. Get my foot on something. Okay, thank you. See now - let me see if I can -
That's it. Panel 16 Power, On.
Yeah, I can feel it. How's the - how's the photos of the SIM bay? Does it - do I need to adjust it?
Looks pretty good down here, Ken.
Houston, is that picture okay? All right, I'm going back to the SIM bay.
It - it really is ripe.
Okay.
Are you ready, Charlie?
Yeah, on your egress, you sure will.
All set?
Okay.
Charlie, can you verify the TV pole's aligned?
Okay, I'd say the service module is pretty well blistered. Did the picture shift? Are you not getting a good picture, Hank?
It looks like it might be swung - swung a little too far to the left. We're not sure. That would be to Charlie's left.
Okay, I'll fix that in a minute. All right. Okay. Stand by. No, we can't put it there without moving the door. Let's get this done. Number 1, I'm at the Mapping Camera, and the Stellar cover door is open, and the Stellar cover is jammed out, and jammed against the handrail. Copy, Hank?
Roger; copy.
I am.
Yeah.
Oh, man. Man, the old Moon's out there. Okay, going after the Pan Camera. Okay, here comes the hard cover... gone.
Soft cover has gone. Okay, I'm going after the hook.
Okay, good.
Boy, that old visor of yours - that outer visor on the glare shield really comes in handy. Okay.
The pip pin is out, and I'm throwing it away.
Oh, they'll open, not much I bet. Not at all, there it is, it's out.
Okay, get my feet out. There's one. There's two.
Okay.
Ken, the TV is just right. It doesn't need adjustment.
All right.
It is that, all right. I don't even see any stars.
Okay, Charlie, will you hook that back to my ring?
You don't need to lock it.
Thank you.
All right, going back for the mapper.
No, the mapper is still out here, I betcha.
Oh, man!
All righty. I got my feet well locked, and I got a good suit pressure, and cooling is just fine, and let me tell you a few things about the old SIM bay. Okay. The first thing that's real obvious to you out here is the - is the amount of bubbling on the service module paint. It's more - it's a bit more than I anticipated seeing and the radiator panel down to the right side of the SIM bay looks nice and clean. There's no bubbles on the paint or anything like that. The area right under the quad - I'll have to raise my visor to see - Yeah, I got the inner one still down. I will. Yeah, you don't need to remind me of that one.
Okay, the area directly under the quad doesn't look to me like it's blistered any more than the areas everywhere else around here. That's just a qualitative comment. The - in fact, the paint on the quad itself is as blistered. The area directly under the nozzle on the - the plus-Z jet on Quad B is all blistered. I can see that in the Sun. I can't tell about the other surfaces. Okay, looking now at the mapping - at the Mass Spec and the Gamma Ray, I'm going to have to move aft to do that.
Ken, I'd like to caution you on the Mass Spec to steer clear of that door there. It's very soft and it could bend and break and leave a jagged edge.
Roger. I won't touch it.
Yeah.
Sorry about that.
Okay, I've got a good handhold over here on the Pan Camera - this rail, so that's a good one, and now I'm over the Gamma Ray door and it's about open at, say, 30 degrees.
And I can't - I can nudge it, and it looks like it's hitting on the top of the Gamma Ray spectrometer itself. No, it isn't. It's not touching the Spectrometer. And I'm not real sure what it is jammed on. I can't see anything anywhere. The cover just feels like it's a little bit loose at about a 30-degree jiggle, and I can't see the mechanism to tell whether it's broken. The...
Roger; can you see if the guide rails come through the SIM?
Mapping Camera - Oh, let me take a look; I don't think I can get my head over there far enough to tell that. Yes, they do. They come right up to the pointed edge.
Roger. Copy.
Okay, and on the Mass Spec, there's nothing there but the door wide open. Was there something in particular you'd like me to look at back here - on the Mass Spec?
Negative.
Okay, anything else on the aft end? I don't see any blistering of paint or anything. It's all clean in the aft shell.
Okay. Copy.
All right; thank you, Charlie. Now, I'll put my feet in here, and we'll take a look at the old mapper. Okay, while I'm standing on top of the DAC camera, the V-over-H sensor looks perfectly clean. There's nothing on the sensor. I see no evidence of contamination on the sensor, either the - the light meter or the V over H. The barrel is clean, all the decks and surfaces of the Pan Camera installation are clean.
Very good, Ken.
Okay, here comes the Mapping Camera cover - hard cover. The soft cover. Okay, that'll be next. Yeah, that's my wrist tether.
Okay.
Ready?
Okay, I'm putting the tether on now, John.
Oh, I'm having trouble with this hook. I - If I can get it on, I can get it locked.
Stand by.
Oh, yeah. I just can't get the darned insulation out of the way. It's a little stiffer than the -
Okay, it's on.
Okay.
Okay, why don't you wait until I get to the hatch?
I see them.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
If you get it hooked on, you can pull the tether off my hand there, Charlie.
No, sir. Okay, how we doing on umbilical now? How we doing on umbilical? You got most of it inside? Okay. Go ahead.
Yes, after Charlie gets in.
Hey, let's go on back to the - Let's see - okay. Yeah, yeah. Let me - turn around here and get my feet in.
Okay, wait a minute. Got to - Let me see if I can find a place to put my feet here. Is that a safe place for my right foot? Okay.
You got - You got anything on the TV?
Not right now. Yeah, we got something there.
Yeah, I'm not very steady here.
Looks like the old Moon.
That's her, babe. Right off the nose.
Okay. that's all for today on that.
Okay, I'm going to have to pull myself in. Let me - send this thing in to Charlie. All righty.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Let me get my umbilical down here. Yes, sir. Okay, Houston, we're maneuvering to the MEED attitude,
Roger.
Don't move my feet. I'll lift.
Out the - All you got to do is pull the - Okay.
I got the pole. Okay.
Okay, let me pull this rail down to hold on to and we'll play ride'em cowboy.
Is that enough out of the way, Charlie? Okay.
Easy. How's that?
Okay. No, it's in the two-bar. No, Charlie's going to unstow it. Okay. Oops! How about if I slide over here? Will that - Okay. All right? Let me - No, I got it here, I think. From here you can't either? Okay, all right, okay. Okay. I got to come in to turn around, then. Hold th - hold this pole until I get out. It - If you let John hold it, then I won't have - it'll be easier to - Okay. The visor back down -
Okay. How's that?
And right now, I've got the Earth peeking over the side of the fuselage, just a little crescent. Okay, coming in.
Fine. Yeah, okay, I got that. And hold -
Okay, Houston, we've reached the MEED attitude.
Roger.
Wait a minute. Okay (garble). It's locked. Of course, we got it. Okay, out with the MEED.
Seven.
Seven.
I found a sight here. Wait a minute.
What you need, Ken?
I don't know. I can't - I've got this visor stuck down and can't see what it is.
Yeah.
Got it locked down.
I meant to tell you about that.
Need somebody to hold your foot there, Ken?
Yeah, it wouldn't hurt.
I got ahold of it.
Okay, I got the other one.
Okay. I got to rotate it another few degrees. You got both my feet there?
Yeah.
Okay.
Why didn't you go out there with a pocket? Take some goodies out with you.
Okay.
You got two pockets: one on each foot.
Okay, all right, let go of my feet there.
Okay.
I'll get up here to attitude.
Where's my foot, there? I don't have to go outside, I don't think. Let's see, Charlie -
What?
Gonna have to - Let's see -
I got you - your - your -
All right, just a second. Oh, that's just what we didn't think about.
What?
What's that?
That Velcro strip lays right in front.
Of the sight?
Yep.
Well, I'll tell you what.
Hang on; I've got my scissors right here.
Why don't you open the thing and let's forget it? It ain't all that important.
I'll be right with you.
Okay.
You'll never - you'll never get those scissors out, Ken.
Ken, I wouldn't do that.
Yes, sir. Okay, okay.
It's not worth it.
Okay.
Anybody ought to be able to figure that mean attitude close enough within 7 degrees.
Okay, what we do need to do is to pitch up, minimum impulse.
Oh, for goodness sakes. Okay. How man - how far, Ken?
Oh, you've got to go about three degrees.
Okay, going to Free.
You want me to...
(Garble) do it.
Let me get this old thing out of your way, John.
Attitude in yet?
(garble) we're going up three degrees.
(Garble) you catch it?
Okay, go - pitch down then.
(Garble) you pitch it?
Pitch down?
Yeah.
Pitch down. We're going down. I just put in one click down, Ken.
Okay, up should be in the right direction on this thing.
You said up - you said down.
I said up the first time and that - that looked like it went the wrong way.
I didn't do anything.
Oh, okay; well, you need to go up about three degrees then.
Is that the right way, now?
I can't tell that you're moving.
I put in three pulses.
Has the attitude changed?
No. Want me to fire - If I go to CMC in Free, it should - it should fire in min impulse, right?
Yeah, yeah, and that's moving now. Moving in the right direction.
Okay.
Let it ride at the slow rate for about another minute.
Guess what I caught floating out the hatch?
What?
What's that -
A ring.
Oh, is that right?
Yeah. I think it's yours.
(Laughter)
Yeah, it is.
Here, hold it, John.
That's it, all right. We got it.
Just got it going over the sill.
(Laughter)
In fact, it had already gone out and hit you and was coming back when I saw it.
(Laughter). Boy, how's that for luck? Okay, John we got another 30 seconds to drift and we'll be there.
Okay. And just - Can I go back to Auto when we get there?
Yes, sir.
Okay. And then stay at that attitude?
Yeah.
All I have to do - I have to enter on this display, right?
Nope.
Okay.
It'd take you back, if you entered on that.
Yeah. No, it'll stay - it'll hold what it's got.
Won't it - won't it trim to those numbers that's in there?
Okay.
You've been out about 25 minutes now, Ken.
Okay.
That's funny, I've got 35.
Well, maybe I - I didn't start my watch exactly right.
It's more than that because I started after we started...
Okay. Why don't you go to Auto?
Going back to Auto.
Come on. Let's open that thing.
Okay, are you ready?
All set to open it.
Ready.
You got a clock, Charlie?
Yeah.
Stand by.
Needing some help, Ken?
Hey, can you hold my feet?
Yeah, I got them. Well, that one slipped out, but I'll get this one. Can you get it open?
There it is.
Okay -
Mark.
Okay. Pull me in.
Wait a minute.
I'll pull myself in.
Okay.
Hoo.
(Garble) over there, Ken.
Is the MEED open now, Ken?
Yes, sir.
Fifteen seconds it's been open.
It's been open 15 or 20 now.
Okay, I didn't get your mark.
Sorry.
Yeah, it's on 22 seconds now.
Me, too.
What time you got?
Twenty - 30 seconds.
Okay. I - I got 3 seconds after that. Did you watch him open it?
Yeah, I had it - when he hit a mark, I started my watch.
Okay, well, you're three seconds ahead of me then.
I don't think it's exactly -
Well, we got to - we ought to have two watches because this event timer's not working.
I know it. We lost a pencil.
Only one?
Saw it float out as I was climbing out.
Probably mine. I think - I had one up here on the (garble).
I don't understand that suit loop.
It's the first time anything like that's ever been in outer space, isn't it?
Yeah.
What kind of pressure do you have now?
I got 4 and John's got 3.5. It looks like it's the - the - the flow divider or whatever's in that's not doing right.
I'm in fine shape, Charlie.
How about our suit gages?
Huh?
Could be a suit gage, yeah. I - I kind of feel like I got more than 3½ in this suit, because I can't do nothing with it much (laughter). And if it - if it were 3½, I'd be able to - to break it.
Okay, coming up on two minutes, Ken.
Okay.
Is it hot out there now, Ken?
I'm very comfortable.
You got good...
Mark.
flow, huh? What's your suit - what's your pressure, Ken?
3.85.
There you go.
Like a champ.
John, could you give us a cuff gage reading?
Okay, I got 3.85, Hank.
I got 3.95. Did he ask for all of us or just for Ken?
I can't transmit, Charlie.
I - Well, Ken can transmit for us.
Hey, Hank. Did you want all of them or just mine?
Roger. Could we get one from John and Charlie?
Okay, say again what you had, John. John has 3.55.
I got 3.55.
John has 3.55. Roger.
And I got 3.95.
Charlie has 3.95.
3.95.
That must be sublimating from somewhere.
It's coming off - it's coming off the - conden - the condensation is coming off the glycol lines.
Oh.
Probably getting some off the bulkheads, too --
Yeah, that's right...
drying this place out.
I mean to tell you, there's a lot of cotton-picking water in this machine. Didn't you notice all them bubbles leaving? That was all water.
Yeah.
Hey, how's the time coming?
(Garble).
You passed three minutes.
Seems like an eternity.
Okay, it sure does.
It's gonna be the longest 10 minutes in history.
Mark; 03:30.
Houston, you are now wit - witnessing one of the longest 10-minute periods in history.
That - that's the wro...
Roger.
Yeah.
That is the wrong thing to say (laughter).
Huh? (Laughter) I don't know, that 2½ minutes - the 2 minutes and 42 seconds was pretty long, too. (Laughter)
(Laughter) Yeah, I think that one was longer.
Yeah.
I'm looking at our dump nozzles out here. And there is very little build-up on the waste dump.
Listen, if anything happens during this period, the only thing we can say is that we died so that the germs may live, and that ain't no good at all.
(Laughter) I don't plan to have that.
That's right.
Okay, we've passed four, coming up on 04:30.
Okay.
Mark.
Henry, was there anything else you wanted to know about the SIM?
Roger. When you were arou - around the Mapping Camera, did you happen to notice the condition of the cable that lays between it and the bulkhead there?
I couldn't see down in there. There's too many shadows.
Roger; copy.
The camera looks...
And, on the Stellar Camera door, how far out was it?
Oh, I'd say the - the - the last folding lip is up against the handrail. Well, it - yeah, just about that far.
Roger.
We've passed five minutes, Ken.
All right, thank you.
Are you comfortable, Ken? You want me to hold on to something?
Oh, I'm just fine. I got nothing to do but just loop my finger around this thing.
Okay. Can you see the sunsight?
On this - on this event timer, Charlie, I got 04:16. Is that right?
That thing ain't working. No. Can you see the sunsight, Ken?
No, sir.
Okay, now. We need a mark for Charlie at 09:30 and one - I mean for 09:30, we need to mark and for 09:50, we need to mark.
Right.
Okay. Look at that piece of ice, John.
Yeah.
How you doing, Ken?
Fine.
Okay.
First time anybody ever laid it on the line for a microbe.
(Laughter)
I'll say.
(Laughter) I wish you wouldn't put it that way.
Can you see the surge tank?
No.
John, can you see the - pressure?
Yeah, it's - You won't believe what it is.
860?
No, it's 720. Just about what it could get. It just stays there. It's really in good shape.
Oh, no, I must be nervous. I've taken two leaks already. (Laughter)
(Laughter)
Okay. Now I got five minutes on this thing.
No, it's coming up seven.
Okay.
(Laughter) No wonder that was such a long time. Hank, we got another one of those event timers that's timed to some base other than universal time.
Say again.
But don't worry about the MEED; we got a watch on it.
Okay, I'm timing you down here, too.
Okay, we got regular - regular watches on it, so it's okay.
Tell him to give us a mark at eight minutes.
Why don't you check us at eight minutes, Hank?
Will do.
How, Moon rock.
I think this may be tuff - tuff breccias, John.
Call them like you see them, Charlie. You said that once or twice.
Coming up on eight minutes -
Mark.
Within a second.
Okay, thank you, Hank. We're right with you.
And with the time delay, I'm probably right on. Ten minutes to look at the bugs. You got to be crazy! (Laughter)
You get a good look at the Earth, Charlie?
Oh, yeah. And I spun around and looked at the Moon, too. The thing that impresses me, though, is how black it is, Ken. Yeah, is it black!
I'm really surprised I don't see any stars.
Charlie's only said 25 times it's black out there.
What?
You've only said that 25 times. (Laughter)
(Garble) see (garble) (laughter).
It really must be black out there! (Laughter)
It's really black! (Laughter)
(Laughter) What time is it?
Mark; nine minutes.
Okay; nine minutes.
Okay; after 10 minutes, give mark, close experiment, and turn lock 90 degrees CCW.
Okay; he needs a mark at 09:30 and...
09:30 (garble) 10 - (garble) in 10 minutes.
Okay. Okay; coming up - it's 09:25 now. Stand by. Okay, Ken.
Mark; 09:30.
Got about 30 seconds, Ken.
Okay, I'm on my way to the experiment. Charlie, can you hold my feet there?
Yeah, I got you.
And would somebody give me a call at 10?
Okay; give a call at 09:50, too.
I will. 09:45 now.
Man, that sight's right on.
Mark; 09:50.
Ten seconds.
Okay. We're counting down the last ten.
Three, 2, 1. There's 10 minutes.
Closed.
Okay, make sure it's closed and locked, Ken.
It's closed;
Turn lock 90 degrees...
I'm working on the lock.
Turn lock 90 degrees CCW.
What if those bugs get out of - get out into here with a...
They'll die.
Charlie, can you hold my feet real good there?
Yeah, I got you.
How about both of them?
No, I can't reach...
Okay.
the other one, it's above my head, Ken.
How are those TV cables down there, Charlie?
They're okay.
Are they well out of the way?
Yeah - they're - No, they're not well out of the way, but they're out of the way.
Okay. Now what you got hung up on last time over there was that pan camera...
Okay.
hanging thing, and it's well out of the way.
How you doing, Ken?
Well, I didn't get it locked.
Ninety degrees CCW.
Yeah, I'm - I'm working on that, John. I got to compress the seal. I'm trying to get some leverage on it.
Oh, man.
Looks like it's the other cor - the corner next to your lock - the look, Ken, that's not quite closing. You want to bring it in and let me help you?
Wait a minute.
Probably got some bubonic plague in that son of a gun.
Man, I'll bet you that UV got them. Now, that looks pretty good, Ken.
Well -
Looks like it's locked to me.
No.
(Garble) Closing.
Ken, you having any luck with that lock yet?
Not yet.
Okay, that goes clockwise and then closes, and then counter clockwise.
Yes, sir, I've got the sequence. It's the lock I don' t have.
How about if we bring it in and tape it closed?
I'm gonna do that in just a second, if I don't get it on this try. Well. Hey, there we go, I think. Let me try that now.
I feel it coming.
Well, I'm going to have to let it have - a little extra LTV.
Because I can't hold it shut and bring it in. Charlie, you got my foot?
Ken, do you intend to use the TV anymore?
No, sir. Okay, I've got to get that thing closed here - at least out of the UV. Okay, I've got it. It was - Hank, it was open for about three seconds.
Roger.
You got it?
All right.
Let me - let me get my hand out of here, that's what's holding me up; now you can pull it in.
Wrap a piece of that tether around it until we get the cabin pressurized. You got it? Okay.
You can probably stick the whole thing under there.
Take your time and get it all cleaned up. All righty.
I see a piece of tether coming up here, is that the MEED? Okay. Yeah. Don't - don't disconnect the lanyard.
Okay. I'll turn around and start in. (Laughter) Rub-a-dub-dub. Okay, you got my umbilical in sight?
Okay. Let me get my - I've got to get - Something's under my foot there. Okay, I've got to get my foot low in order to get in. Want me to go back out? Hey, okay; swing. Oh, not quite. Got to get this thing up where I can see something.
Look at that!
Get the - John, you sure have a lousy LEVA. It's closed and the hatch is clear. Just a second. Okay. All right. Before I take it any further, let me try and (garble) some of those latch seals (garble) You're right. Can you see the latch seals? I can't see the top. Can you see the top, John? I just want to make sure I don't have something stuck - a lanyard stuck in there somewhere. Okay? Yeah. Hey, the - the handle - the indicator looks latched. Yes, sir.
Okay, Ken. Before you pressurize the cabin, we'd like for you to verify that the switch on the TV is in Standby, and that the S-Band Aux TV is Off.
Okay. What's the next step on the latches, here? I think you read one I did miss. And on (garble) It's latched. Okay, let me - I can get that TV switch. Hey - Okay. That's a big help. The switch is Off. that's affirmative. Oh, and the - I can't find that. Wasn't on the checklist. Yes, you do. Right up there. I'm trying to get the visor up so I can see. (Laughter) No, I'm going to use this hatch right here. If I can read through this thing. Beg your pardon? It's right there. Okay. Dump valve coming close.
Okay. Houston, can you call us at a cabin pressure of one?
Will do.
I'll get it.
Say again.
Roger. We'll give you a call at one psi.
Okay. We're repressuring now. Okay.
I show not quite one on the gage. Okay, Henry. We're showing almost one on our gage, and we're letting it - watch for a minute or so.
Roger. We're showing 0.5 down here.
Okay.
0.6 now.
(Garble) cabin check, isn't it?
That's affirmative.
He says it's 0.6. Okay. And what time - What, - we have a minute here? Three minutes? Thirty seconds. Okay. Looks closed to me. Okay, Houston, we're content with the check.
Looks pretty good from down here.
Repress (garble).
Dump open?
I am. Nigh unto there. Just about.
Just a second.
Cabin pressure I show two - oh, about 2.0.
Roger. We're showing 1.9.
Okay.
2.0 now.
Okay, it's Close. You can? How you doing that? (Laughter) Oh, you rolled over. Oh, I see. Oh, I see. I was gonna say, you got pretty good peripheral vision if you can see around the corner that way.
(Laughter) That's 1265.
(Laughter) Yeah.
All right, sir. We've got about 2 - 4, it looks like. Yeah. (Laughter) Sure is; 85. It's 5 inches wide.
Charlie? Doesn't seem like it, does it? (Laughter) I guess that depends on your point of view, huh?
And this umbilical isn't putting out an awful lot compared to this big volume.
And the umbilical is bringing it up slowly, Houston, but it looks normal.
Ken, is it convenient for somebody to start a Verb 49 to the thermal attitude?
Yes, sir. If you can read it to us. We don't have any books out or anything.
Okay, your Noun 22 is 175, 283, 340. And we want to change the DAP first. Verb 48 will be - And if you can get to it, we enable all the jets.
You want me to move, John? Oh, Okay. What do you want on the DAP, Houston?
Okay, after enabling all jets, we want 11101, and then all ones.
A/C. Okay, leave the B/C Roll jets Off. Just leave enable coupled. Yes, sir. Just turn - turn the A/C Roll on. Okay; and all of the Pitch and Yaw. Push the three, maybe, or four, maybe, circuit breakers back in. Okay. Okay, you're in business. You have the auto coiled?
Hank, say again those numbers for the attitude?
Okay, R-1 is 17500, plus 28300, plus 34000. And would you check jet Charlie 1, on.
Do they want it on or Off? Well, I don't think we've got quite that yet.
Hey, Houston, I don't know what that problem we had with the Glycol Evap Temp was. But there was a lot of ice crystals coming off from that side of the cockpit, and maybe it was affecting some of the temperatures over underneath that region, which are probably covered with condensate.
Got to roll over so John can get to my (garble) valve.
Roger. That may have been it, John. Look at that. I did it.
Roger, Ken. We're showing you at 3 psi now.
Okay. Thank you. Read the card there. Well, I think we're going to pump the cabin up with it, Charlie. Just read the - Yep.
(Laughter) You got it. They didn't make the string quite long enough. Okay? Where is it? (Laughter) Well, we'll find it if it comes - Well, I don't want to let it come loose on the panel. Can you reach the - You got it? Okay, I'm gonna open it. Okay? All set? Here we go. I've gotta open the purge valve. I can reach the purge valve. (Laughter.)
Yeah. Why don't you punch it off, so you - It's under your card, there.
Five and a half. Might as well go first class. Might as well. We want to empty it before entry.
16, could we have Auto on the High Gain.
(Laughter) In a minute. Can you reach it? Okay. Good thing you can reach it. I think that's where my OPS is.
Okay, how's the cabin? Is it? Maybe I won't have to turn this thing off. Is it flowing, Charlie? Cabin regs are off.
Ken, we're showing 5.0 down here.
Okay, thank you.
I'll buy that. (Laughter) When I closed it, I understood what you meant (laughter).
Right.
Ken, would you shut the OPS off? We show 5.5.
Okay. Is there anything wrong with taking it a little higher?
You can take it on up to about 5.7, 5.8, Ken.
Okay, if you don't mind.
We're showing you 5.8 now, Ken.
Okay, it's off. Okay, I'm gonna pop the purge valve.
Yes, sir.
Ken, did you ever get the MEED locked?
Yes, sir.
Okay. Verify it was locked.
It probably got another five seconds of exposure.
Okay, real good.
Got another five seconds of exposure, not all of which was on indirect UV. But as soon as we got it in the cockpit where a couple guys could get at it, it was locked.
Good show. Omni Delta, 16.
Can you get Omni Delta?
I don't know. Hey, why don't you hold tight there. Okay. That'll do it. You've got it.
(Laughter.) Uh-oh. (Laughter) It's up in the - it's up in the LEVA in the tunnel. Oh, there's more accessory bags up there. Just get one of them out. Okay, both of them have an accessory bag in them. Why don't you take me off the Vox, too? Thank you.
Ken, we were enjoying that. Sounds like you're having a lot of fun.
I mean to tell you. I believe he was enjoying it.
Sure sounded like it.
Charlie's already said all he can say about it. And he said it 45 or 50 times already.
(Laughter) Roger.
Want to hear Charlie's words?
Boy! Is it black out there!
16, can one of you see the battery compartment reading now?
It's 2.0, Hank.
Roger; 2.0.
16, Houston. When you get a chance - no rush - we'd like to switch over to B/D Roll.
Apollo 16, Houston.
Go ahead. Over.
Roger, John. When y'all get through stowing and cleaning up there, whenever you're ready to pick up in the Flight Plan, give us a call. We got a little change to that SIM bay configuration, and we won't bother you with it now until you're ready for it.
Okay. Thank you, Hank. Hey, listen. We could go to a SIM attitude or something and clean up in that attitude. We don't have to stay in this attitude, Hank, because it's gonna take us a long time to get these suits off and get all this stuff stowed. Maybe like an hour or so.
Okay, John. We're working that up now, and if you can do that, we'll give you a call here in a few minutes and start out on it.
Sure, we pretty well have to do it one at a time because of - we're sort of loaded with things now. Like rocks and film and experiments.
Roger. I understand.
16, Houston. We're going to do a shift change now. Don's coming on. That was a real great job.
Thank you, Hank. We enjoyed it. We sure do appreciate your support in looking at some of those gages for us, when we - We didn't realize we were able to see them in one g, but zero g, you sort of float up in front of them. Thank you very kindly.
Roger; that's what I'm here for.
16, Houston.
Go ahead. Over.
Okay. As soon as you can get to it, we'd like you to maneuver to that X-ray pointing attitude that's listed in the Flight Plan at 245:20. But we do not want you to configure the SIM bay. We'll give you that item by item after you get in attitude.
Okay, that's in work.
Roger.
16, go Omni Charlie.
Okay, Pete. You got it.
Roger. Thank you.
16, we're going to try to bring up the High Gain on Pitch 48, Yaw 330. Go Manual and Wide.
Okay, plus 48, 330. Stand by.
Roger.
Okay; we got pretty good signal strength, about three quarters.
Roger. 16, let's try going Narrow on the High Gain.
Okay, coming in Narrow.
Okay, Pete, I tweaked up the pitch, and you got pretty good signal strength in Narrow Beam.
Okay, thank you.
Hey, Pete; 16 here. We'd like to see if EECOM can come up with a - something on this battery compartment pressure increase. It appears to us that something is venting in there. I'd like to tell you - Before we started the Bat B Charger, 3 or 4 hours ago - whenever it was. We failed to check it before we started. And when we started the charge, there was a slight odor that's hard to identify, but it smelled like insulation. Then we stopped the charge, reconfigured again - Mainly I stopped the charge because I was looking at the wrong thing. I was looking at Bat Bus B and I saw the currents go negative which is nominal, but - so I stopped the charge and went back to Bat B Charge, and it looked okay. And there was no odor. And then we looked at the Systems Test and we had 3 - 3 volts. We been venting it now on y'all's request. And we'd vent it to 1, and then it immediately starts climbing back to 01.45, and then it slowly increases and usually stabilizes out at about 2 or so. Over.
Roger; we copied. That's in work.
And I'd like to know right now how many amps we got in A, B, and C.
Okay, stand by 1.
Okay, 16. I've got the SIM bay basic configuration that we'd like to get you into as soon as we can. And I'll read them to you one at a time, and you can configure as we go along. The first one is Auto RCS Select, Off, except A1, B2, A3, C4, B3, D4.
Okay, stand by. That was a little fast. John is starting - you got A1. Go ahead, now.
Okay, Charlie. It's...
Say again what thrusters you want.
Okay, we want Auto RCS Select, Off, except the following: Delta 1, Bravo 2, Alfa 3, Charlie 4, Bravo 3, Delta 4.
Okay, you got D1, B1, AB, C4, B3, and D4.
Roger; copy. Okay, we need to go PCM Bit Rate High.
We were in High.
Okay. And S-Band Aux TV to SCI.
SCI.
Alpha/X-Ray Experiment Covers, Close.
Okay. Alpha/X-Ray Experiment Covers Are Closed.
Roger. Gamma Ray Boom Deploy to Off.
Stand by. Roger.
It is Off.
Roger. Gamma Ray Boom Jett to off.
Okay. It's off.
Okay. Gamma Ray, Experiment On.
Gamma Ray's coming On.
Okay. Jett, Experiment off.
Okay, it is off. Jett, off. Roger.
Jett, Ion Source. Verify Off.
It's Off.
Data System's On.
It's On.
X-Ray, On.
X-Ray is On.
And Logic Power 2 to Deploy/Retract.
Okay, stand by on those two.
Okay, 16. We've lost the High Gain. Let's go Wide and Reacq, and then step to Narrow like a normal acquisition.
Okay. Okay, we got the High Gain, Reacq and Narrow. Okay, Pete, the Logic switch is at Deploy/Retract. Go ahead.
Okay, 16. We need Alpha On, and that will complete the SIM bay configuration.
Alpha's On.
Roger. Thank you.
Let's go Gamma Ray, Deploy, for 17 seconds.
Roger. The Gamma Ray's going to Deploy for 17 seconds.
And, 16, would you verify Gamma Ray On?
Yes, sir. The Experiment is On.
Roger.
Hey, Pete, our Service Module/AC Power is Off right now - on 181.
That's the way it should be, 16. And...
Okay. Stand by and I'll get - Go ahead.
Okay, Charlie. Did you get the Gamma Ray, Deploy, 17 seconds?
I'm gonna do that right now. Stand by.
Roger.
Hey, Pete. All our watches have floated off. Could you - I'll give you a mark, and give me a call in 17 seconds. Okay -
Mark. Deploy.
Now, Charlie, on the Gamma Ray Deploy.
Say again.
Stop the Gamma Ray Deploy.
I think I copied you. I'm now in Off on the Deploy switch.
Pete, are you reading? Over.
Roger. Say again, Charlie.
Roger; I wanted a mark on that Gamma Ray Deploy. We didn't have any ticktocks. All ours floated off here, and I couldn't see the Event GET Mission Timer. And I gave you a mark, and then I think you said turn it Off, so I'm now in Off on the Deploy switch.
Okay. We copy, Charlie.
Okay.
Okay, 16. Would you confirm that SEB 2 circuit breaker is closed?
No, they're both open too. We powered down the SIM bay as - per checklist for the EVA.
(Garble) for some things that you guys threw in there as per usual.
You want me to close instruments in equipment, too?
That's affirmative, 16.
Okay, Going closed -
Mark.
16, on your request on the amp-hours on the batteries: Battery Alfa is 36, Battery Bravo 30.3, and Charlie 39.0.
Okay. Thank you very much.
16, on the cryo configuration, we'd like O2 tanks 1 and 2 to Auto; tank 3, Off.
Roger. You have it. 1 and 2 Auto; 3 is Off.
Roger.
And, 16, on the SIM bay, we'll call all the changes on the SIM bay in real time until you're cleaned up there and in a position where you can get back to the Flight Plan.
Thank you very much.
Okay, 16, and now we'd like to go Alpha Particle/X-Ray Cover, Open. And we'd also like to get one more reading on the battery compartment.
Okay, Alpha/X-Ray is going Open.
Roger.
And the battery is holding at about 221. Right around there.
Roger; copy.
And it might be climbing slightly, too.
Roger.
16, Houston. We've got a maneuver - Verb 49 maneuver at 246:30. I've got the attitudes and High Gain angles when you're ready.
Go ahead.
Okay; Verb 49 maneuver to X-ray attitude will be 174, 133, 032. And the High Gain angles are Pitch, minus 14; Yaw, 105; they want to go Reacq and Wide on the High Gain, and then step to Narrow in the normal way. And if you lose comm, go to Omni Delta.
Okay, Pete. We're - we'll start maneuvering at 30, and we'll go to 174, 133, 032. Angles on the High Gain, minus 14 and 105 and the normal acquisition.
Roger.
Okay. Do you want us to wait until 30, or can we start maneuvering now?
Stand by a minute; we'll check it. Okay, 16; you can go ahead with the maneuver now.
Okay.
Yeah.
(Garble).
(Garble) Auto.
(Garble) there's one.
John, what does it say do with the MEED?
It doesn't say. It says, "Remove center couch and temporary stow under Commander couch. Stow couch straps in R-5." "MEED and cover, A-7 - with cover, A-7, installed." No, no, it doesn't say what to do with it yet. Why don't you just don't worry about it. Huh?
No, it says "Stow in A-7," John.
No, it doesn't.
Stow in A-7, all of these things. And the MEED...
With cover installed, yeah, that goes in A-7.
The OPS...
"EVA equipment container, fold up place next to OPE; penetrometer drum; secure the strap; entry boots and ropes with other straps; restow headrest pads, loose; vacuum cleaner bag."
(Garble).
Well, let's not do that yet. There's a whole bunch of other things that they want you to do here first. You want to do it in order?
(Garble).
No. It says "Remove center couch and temporary stow under the CDR couch." Now that ain't even in order.
(Garble) couch (garble).
What it says here.
(Garble).
Oh.
16, let's go Omni Delta. We reacquired a High Gain when we went into a new attitude.
Say again.
Okay.
That's a pretty good program they've got that can figure out how to point all these experiments at the right places in the sky.
Ah, that's old R-12 floating by. Humm. Hey, when are we supposed to cap the relief valves on our suits? John...
What?
When are we supposed to cap the relief valves on our suits?
(Garble).
Well, I had done that when I got my suit out, because I thought it was in the procedure, and I said, well, I'll get a step ahead. But I don't ever...
(Garble).
Doesn't matter. How many rads did I get? Not a one.
Okay, I'm coming down (garble).
It says, "Stow couch straps in R-5." It says, "Stow OPS hose, actuator, and flaps. Verify O2 is off." "Stow OPS hose, actuator, and flaps. Verify the O2 is off." It says, "Report the OPS pressure to Houston."
How's the maneuver?
Doing good. We're almost there. How much - how much is OPS pressure, Ken?
(Garble).
Really?
Houston, we still got 1,300 psi on the OPS.
Roger; we copy.
That's being reported as per page - page X3-22.
Roger; copy.
In the middle of the page.
Then it says, "Remove from A-7 to stow in U-2, two HEL bags," whatever a HEL bag is. Doesn't say "Helmet bag." It says "HEL bag"; H-E-L b-a-g.
I lost my pencil. Charlie, you took it...
I have it. I got it.
Got to have it back.
Here you go.
Thank you.
Huh? It says, "Stow OPS hose, actuator, and flaps. Verify O2 off." "Report OPS to Houston." We did. "Remove from A-7 to stow in U-2: two helmet bags and one accessory bag, and the cabin fan filter"; that's "if required, if required." Then it says, "Remove A-9 rock bag and temporary stow."
Where's the A-9 container?
We do this alphabet again?
Yeah. Charlie. Okay, it's, "Stow in A-7: OPS, flag up, feet inboard." Charlie, I'm going off comm.
Okay.
Okay, EVA equipment container, fold up, place next to EPS.
(Garble) Where's that?
Okay, (garble) "Secure the strap." (Garble) "Secure the strap."
"Stow entry boots and ropes" (garble).
You want me to (garble).
Yeah.
Houston, 16 on the High Gain.
Roger; loud and clear, Charlie. Or was that Charlie?
Say again.
Roger. wasn't sure I'd recognized your voice. You're loud and clear.
It's me. Got a mouth full of chewing gum.
Roger.
16, we've got a update to the G&C Checklist on the PIPA bias changes, and also we're gonna play a little game with the mixing valve to try to reset it for the Trans-Earth coast. We can do that whenever you're ready.
Okay; do - we have something to copy for the PIPA bias?
That's affirmative. It's in the G&C Checklist, page 9-4.
Okay; could you hold off on that? And we're sort of cluttered here now, and we - give me the mixing valve. Is that procedure down on below the couches or just up on the cockpit?
We can do this all from up in the cockpit. What we're gonna do - and I don't want you to do it now - but what we're gonna do is put it in Auto, and EECOM will sit here and watch the flow-rate change, and when we a - get to a certain lead point on what we think is the desired flow rate, he'll cue me, and I'll cue you, and we'll go to Manual.
Okay; we're ready at your - Give me a mark.
Okay; stand by. Okay; go to Auto, 16.
Mark. Auto.
Okay; Charlie, the - the valve didn't act the way we thought it was going to. It's been oscillating down and back up on the flow rate, and we were gonna try to catch it in midcycle. And this time, when we went to Auto, it just went up pretty high and it's oscillating a little, but it's staying high. We're gonna watch it for a couple or 3 more minutes, and if it doesn't work, we'll probably have to go down below the couch here and play with the manual valve.
Okay. That'll be the trick of the week in our present configuration.
Well, we can wait awhile for that.
Okay, Charlie. Stand by, and I'll give you a hack when I want you to go Manual.
Okay.
It had started down, but it's hung up again.
Charlie, it looks like it went back up again. We'll give you another little warning here if it starts back down.
All right.
Okay; Charlie, let's try cycling that switch from Auto to Manual and back to Auto, and see if we can get the flow rate to come down.
Okay; here we go. Manual. Auto. Hey, Pete, there's a...
Go to Manual, Charlie. Go to Manual now, Charlie.
an awful lot of static on the up-link. Could you...
Go to Manual now.
Okay; we got Manual. And there's an awful lot of static on the up-link. Could you check - have network check it?
Roger; will do, Charlie.
Sounds like a wind - wind blowing.
Charlie, on that noise that you're hearing, is - are John and Ken also hearing the same thing?
Yeah, what it is, is John has his comm carrier off but connected, and it - in his PGA, one of the mikes was down in the neck ring, and the - the vent tube was blowing on it. It's okay. It's up here. Thank you.
Okay; we understand.
It sounded exactly like radio - it sounded exactly like the radio static, though.
Okay.
Pete, we've still got quite a bit of stowage left. If you could keep us advised on the Flight Plan, we'd appreciate it.
Okay. Will do.
16, if you read, go Manual and Wide on the High Gain.
Roger. We're with you, Pete. Looks like either our antenna's acting up, or the up-link's been dropped.
Roger.
Do you want me to try Reacquisition?
Let's try Reacq and Wide. And you won't try to step to Narrow. We won't try to step to Narrow.
Okay; the Pitch is osch - oscillating right now between about plus - minus 10 and minus 40.
Okay; let's stay where we are until it settles down, if it will.
Okay; you're in Reacq and Wide.
Roger. Is it oscillating now, Charlie?
Not in Reacq. No, it settled out in minus - about minus 15.
Okay; let's go to Narrow.
Okay.
And it doesn't look like it took, Pete.
Say again?
Okay; Pete, I went to Manual and tweaked up the Pitch a little bit.
(Garble) hand controller (garble).
And then went to Narrow and Reacq, and it looks like we've got it now.
(Garble), Charlie.
Yeah.
Okay; looks good to us too now, Charlie.
(Garble).
Well, I am. I'm gonna get out of the suit. How's that, huh? Hello, tape recorder. It's running. You know, I forgot to ask INCO how that old pro temp was. Never once did I ask him.
16, we'd like to Deploy the Gamma Ray to 4 feet, and that's 13 seconds from where you are now.
Okay; in work.
Okay; exactly 13 seconds.
Roger. Thank you.
And, 16, could you give us a battery manifold pressure read-out, please?
You mean the battery compartment?
That's affirmative.
Yeah, it's a- just a minute. It's about - I think it's creeped up to about 2.2 now, Pete. Yeah, it's 2.2.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, 16.
Go ahead, 16.
Okay, Pete. I was just looking through the Flight Plan. We're a little off on the biomed. I'm still on the biomed; Ken and John are off now. They're - stowing suits.
Okay, Charlie. And while I've got you on the subject of biomed here, the doctor advises that they were unable to monitor you during the EVA this afternoon; and it looks like you may have to do some troubleshooting on the thing. And you were scheduled to be monitored tonight; however, that's not a hard and fast requirement. They could monitor the CMP tonight instead, and that'd give you a little more time to work with your harness.
Okay. What are they seeing right now?
They're not seeing anything right now.
Ah so. Well, I put some new sensors on this morning before we got suited. When I get my suit off, I'll check it.
Okay.
Houston, 16.
Go ahead, 16.
Okay, Pete. The biomed doesn't work very well unless you hook it up. When I put on the suit, I forgot to hook it.
Okay, we copy. Okay, Charlie. We'll stick with the nominal plan then. We'll monitor you tonight.
Okay, that's fine. I'll be up in just a little bit.
Okay.
Okay, Pete. We're back up again on the steerable.
Okay. And you're loud and clear.
Okay. And for some reason here - we're sitting in Reacq and Narrow, and I can move the yaw - yaw - plot and - drive the antenna.
Okay, we copy.
Charlie, we're thinking about it. We'll get back to you in a minute.
Okay.
Charlie, apparently the problem is that the position we're in now - we're right at one of the scan limits of the antenna; and when it comes up on that limit, it automatically switches to Manual. And so, intermittently, it would be in a situation where you could drive it.
Ah so. I see. Thank you.
16, we've got a station handover here in about a minute. And because we are on the scan limit on the High Gain, we may lose contact temporarily.
16, Houston. I've got a Verb 49 maneuver for you, and we need a battery...
Understand. A Verb 49 maneuver.
Roger. Coming up at 45 minutes past the hour here - a couple of minutes away, and it's maneuver to 332, 280, 000. High-gain angles are Pitch, 10; Yaw, 260.
Okay, Pete. Verb 49 maneuver. Say the time you want to do it at.
Oh, about a minute from now.
All right. A minute from now. 332, 280, 007.
That's affirmative. It's not real time critical...
And. plus 10 and 260.
That's affirmative. And that maneuver is not time critical.
And - and that's - It's not?
Negative. Just - You can go ahead and do it now, or you can wait a few minutes; whatever you want. And, 16, we'd like another read-out on the battery compartment, too.
It's reading 2.2 - about 5. 2.25.
Roger; 2.25
Omni Delta, 16.
Knew we'd find it.
Would you close the X-ray Alpha cover - as soon as you can?
(Garble) cover.
Close the X-ray Alpha cover.
Okay.
(Garble).
Okay (garble). One of these days I've got to learn what's in this package.
You want to take that for me?
Pretty hard to make the old (garble).
When does that happen? (garble).
This thing is leaking like a sieve.
(Garble).
(Garble).
This place is gonna - it smells like an outhouse now. I don't...
(Garble).
(Garble) back?
(Garble) got (garble).
(Garble) rubber to the valve in there.
That makes me mad.
16, you're getting up high on yaw angle. And - want to watch your middle gimbal angle, and you're in Free right now.
Ken is watching it.
(Garble) just give me the word they want to watch the middle gimbal angle.
Roger.
(Garble) around it (garble).
In fact, he was just flying around it.
Roger.
Ah, my salvation! I found you, you son of a gun. It's an extra thing.
Omni Charlie, 16.
(Garble) Charlie.
Charlie.
(Garble) hear (garble).
Omni Charlie.
(Garble).
Omni Charlie.
(Garble).
I found it.
(Garble).
No, one of these things.
(Garble) now.
Charlie, you've had it. (Laughter) I don't know (garble) I saw it go floating by here a minute ago. That's about the truth. You put it in the seat there, I thought. Notice it didn't stay there (laughter).
(Garble).
(Garble) I'll find it for you, Charlie.
Okay.
Just hang in there (garble) Don't need it right this minute, do you?
No, (garble).
Ken, that's the (garble) on that EVA.
Oh, shoot.
Oh, shoot?
Fantastic. No way (garble) everything (garble) run perfect.
A lot of hours there.
(Garble).
Why was it embarrassing?
(Garble).
Man, that place was dazzling.
(Garble):
No. I'm trying to finish off the one I started about 10 minutes ago. If I don't finish it, old Henry is going to get all mad at me and quit.
(Garble).
She's running on choked flow right now, supposed to be.
(Garble).
Here's one of our basalts, Charlie.
Oh, I been looking (garble) I put it in here (garble).
What's that?
No, there it is; it's back in there.
Thank goodness! Oh, that feels so good. Oh, oh. Oh, man.
(Garble).
I got some (garble) here.
Yeah, that's what I want to do is wash up and get some dirt off my hands.
(Garble).
You can have a couple, Ken.
We got - we got some hand (garble).
Really?
(Garble).
These guys from the South, they just don't wash regular (laughter). So used to digging in dirt, they just don't - don't even bother.
That (garble).
Is that (garble) my (garble)?
Yeah.
(Garble).
Where is it? Where's the stowage bag? I don't see that. Oh, there it is.
Yeah, I'll get some.
(Garble).
First night? First five minutes. I told those doctors when we hit that deck, I want a shower. I've been there before, and I ain't putting up with anything else. I ain't gonna do nothing.
(Garble) (laughter) (garble) back off.
(Garble) you guy (garble) over there?
(Garble).
(Garble).
(Garble) (Laughter)
That's telling the whole world, yeah.
(Garble).
I get the feeling that potassium - You want some?
(Garble).
I got the feeling that potassium in there has a lot to do with that. I really do.
(Garble).
Well, that was the reason (garble).
16, would you try to bring up the High Gain now on Pitch 10, Yaw 260, and you can follow it up by getting the Alpha Particle/X-Ray Door, Open, and the Gamma Ray, Shield Off.
Roger; understand High Gain, minus 10 and 260 on High Gain.
It's plus 10, 16.
Follow that up by the Gamma Ray - Gamma Ray door - Alpha/X-Ray Door to Open and the Gamma Ray, Shield Off.
Gamma Ray, Shield Off, and that's plus 10 on the High Gain.
Plus 10 on the High Gain.
That's affirmative.
Supposed to go Off.
Okay; the door's open and the Shield's Off.
Roger.
I don't know if I had any records in there or not. I'm going to get me some music.
What are you doing? (garble).
Testing the light.
(Garble).
Oh, boy!
(Music)
Yeah (garble).
(Garble).
I don't care who it is; it sounds great.
(Garble).
Yeah. Yeah. I played football with D'Agostino in high school. Yeah, he'd make - he was a big 190-pound kid when I played. He went to Florida and got to be all Southeastern Conference or something. Just goes to show you. Me, I used to knock him around, and when I can knock somebody around, you - you ain't any good. You're really bad. I sure would hate to knock - to knock him around after he got to Florida.
16, we need the High Gain, if you can bring it up.
Okay; plus 260 - 280 and plus 10.
Is that High Gain?
High Gain, yeah. Plus 10, he said. Got it, Charlie?
Okay, 16. We're getting it now.
How does that look to you, Houston?
That looks real good.
(Garble) Put the UV thing in there, Charlie.
Okay, 16. We need to go extend - or Deploy on the Gamma Ray for 26 seconds.
Okay; that's in work.
Roger; and we do not want to retract it first; just extend it for 26 seconds from your present position.
Okay.
And, 16, we've got some national and local news here for you while you're finishing up with your chores there. The - first of all, Ken Mattingly made the headlines today in connection with the EVA, and we got a big cartoon here showing the Apollo 16 Intercelestial Hauling Company coming back from the Moon with a big load of rocks. Looks like they've made a - a railroad car out of a SIM bay here and got a big pile of rocks on it there. Moon in the background, and all that sort of thing. Got a couple of things here, one from Vietnam. Communist tanks drove retreating South Vietnamese soldiers toward the provincial capital of Kontum in the Central Highlands today, forcing Government troops to abandon two more artillery bases in the town of Dac To. Seven bases in the Central Highlands have fallen to the Communists since Sunday. Ten waves of B-52s bombed Communist troop positions during the night in an effort to stop the offensive that appeared aimed at Kontum. And from Northern Ireland, some guy found a new use for a baby carriage. He packed it with gelignite, which one of our backroom guys here tells me is a - an explosive, and bombed Northern Ireland's main telephone exchange during the night in a major attempt to disrupt the province's communications. The carriage exploded in a sheet of flames shortly before midnight Monday outside the Belfast Telephone Exchange, injuring two British soldiers and a civilian, and toppling part of the wall of the seven-story brown brick building. And the Astros amazed everybody, I guess, by winning a - their seventh straight today. Chicago's Ron Santo and Houston's Lee May bashed two-run homers for each side in the first inning, and then the two teams battled tenaciously without another score until John Edwards smashed an 11th inning home run that gave the Houston team a 3-to-2 victory. That makes it seven in a row for the Astros, and brought them a first-place tie with Los Angeles in the National League West, and gave them the best nine-game start, that's seven wins and two losses, in the team's 10-year history.
Go get them, Astros.
Okay; got another little thing here in the local paper you might be interested in. Houston paper reports that the city is moving to annex a 50-square-mile area west of Houston, including the Federally-owned Addicks and Barker Reservoirs and the land between them and the present city limits. The annexation reportedly would open the way for the city to develop the reservoir areas for recreational purposes. And I guess that does not - the annexation would not include about 4 square miles of Barker Reservoir in Fort Bend County, which is outside the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction. And three US Representatives have studied a feasibility study of deepwater ports in the Gulf of Mexico and have recommended the Texas Coast as a possible site. Texas Representatives Jack Brooks of Beaumont, Bob Eekhardt of Houston, and John Young of Corpus Christi appeared here Monday at a US Corps of Engineer public hearing to voice their opinions on such a facility.
Okay; the weather here is real nice. Houston and vicinity was fair all day and tonight. Becoming partly cloudy Wednesday. Warm afternoons, cool again tonight the paper says. High today was in the upper-80s, low tonight in the upper-50s, and high Wednesday in the mid-80s. And dry, cool air prevailing over most of the US. And of more immediate interest, the weather in the recovery area is excellent and forecast to stay that way.
That's the best news we've heard in a long time.
And we got one final item here I thought you might find interesting. The Memphis Better Business Bureau couldn't help the man who complained that a car dealer refused to refund his $50 downpayment after he decided not to buy the car. Apparently he hadn't told the Better Business Bureau all the facts, because it turns out the dealer suggested he take the car for a test ride and he did, but he was gone three days and put 1,500 miles on the car.
(Laughter) Beautiful.
And then he didn't want to buy it?
He didn't want to buy it, and he wanted his money back, his $50 downpayment.
(Laughter)
You can probably find a lot of flaws with that kind of test procedure.
Yeah, sure could.
How did the TV look down there with Ken outside? I was watching it on the monitor. It seemed like - in places it was too bright, and other places, not bright enough. And I guess that's the way the - I guess that's - unfortunately, that's the way the sunlight is up here.
Yeah, I guess we agree with that, but the pictures were overall real good, John. They looked - looked real good to us. You could see a lot of the detail, and I don't think we missed very much. There were some - some dark areas.
Okay; fine.
I'll tell you, the darkest area, Pete, is looking away from that Sun. Boy, is it black out there.
I bet.
That's time number 47.
I know you guys won't believe this, but after spending 3 days among the rocks, ever so often, when we're sitting around in here, we see a pebble go by. And that's the truth. I don't know what we're gonna do with them.
Just a pebble, huh?
They just seem to - I guess they'll all get collected in ECS. Yeah. When we came back in our suits, it - it got in. I guess we pretty well tracked a lot of dirt into the LM unavoidably, and we weren't able to clean it up. So when we docked, we tried to keep it all in the Lunar Module, but it - this - the inflow valve over here was the only thing that was really working once we got powered down. And then when we went back in there and powered up everything, we took the Command Module hose over with us and that circulated the air. And I think we ended up with quite a few unexpected little pieces of Moon rock in the Command Module.
Roger, understand.
And every time - and every time Charlie sees one float by, he picks it up and changes his story.
He's still analyzing them, huh?
Yeah.
I got it all straight now though, Pete.
Good.
I will be unswayed by the facts when we get back.
Roger, understand. And would you give us Gamma Ray, Shield on, now, please?
Roger.
I tell you, Pete, looking away from - on that EVA, looking away in it out into that blackness, you get the distinct impression that you don't want to let go.
Yeah, I - I can believe that.
Even on TV it looks pretty dark out there.
I - I guess - we're sitting around talking about it here when we had a few slack moments, and one of the things we think is that no matter what you see on the pictures, or what you see on the TV, or what you'll see when we get back with these pictures, you just don't have a feeling of about how stark and brilliant these colors are. Like Descartes was the most dazzling place I believe I've ever been. It just absolutely - brilliant colors that contrast in that bright Sun, and the same way for this EVA that Ken and Charlie just finished. Why it - looking out that hatch it - the black that you can take with a camera is not gonna show up the way that that black actually was.
16, we've got about three more small items. We've got an update to the G&C Checklist, one change to the Flight Plan at 251:45, and we need to get John's PRD reading.
Okay; well, I just packed the thing away in the suit locker. If you want me to dig it out, I'll get it, but it's gonna be a job.
Stand by one.
I'm sorry about that, but that thing is just hard to get a hold of and keep a hold of.
Okay; John, I guess we'll try to get to it sometime tomorrow, maybe.
Well, in other words, you tell me that you want me to go in there and dig that thing out, and I don't mind doing it if it's got to be done, but I mean - I can't see I'm getting anymore PRDs than the other two guys.
Stand by, John. We - we're having a little discussion here.
He's been within a couple of counts of me, Pete, during the whole flight.
Roger. While we're waiting, you want to go ahead and get this change in the Flight Plan at 251:45?
Yeah.
Okay, Don. Go ahead.
Okay. At 251:45 where it says "Gamma Ray, Retract and then Deploy," we want to strike out the part that says "Retract," and also we want to change the "45 seconds" to "12 seconds." What we're gonna do is just bring it back in from its present position. And we want to make that a "Retract" instead of a "Deploy."
Okay; that's a Retract to 16 feet, and that's 12 seconds from the existing position.
That's affirmative. And also I've got this update on Page G9-4, G&N Checklist.
Okay, I'll have to - I'm gonna have to unstow that thing to see where we put it.
Okay.
Hey, Don, have you got a pencil out there?
Affirmative.
Okay; we've got a - a Flight Plan update that starts at 249 hours and 39 minutes. It's called "Crew Eat Period."
Roger.
Just thought we ought to be able to make some real-time changes from up here too.
Roger. That sounds reasonable. I think we've done our share in the last couple of days.
Yes, I'm sure you'll - you have earned the medals you will receive.
That sounds tragic.
(Laughter) Okay. How about - I got G9-4 here.
Okay. We want to change in column A, line 5 should now read 03753, and line 7 should read...
Okay, that's 03753, line 5 in column A.
That's affirmative. And in column A, line 7, that one should now read 76605.
76605, for column - 7 in column A.
That's affirmative, and that completes that update.
Okay.
And I believe that's everything we got for you.
All righty.
And in line with our 20-plus-hour clock sync, we had to go to day 10, Meal B to catch up.
Say again, John.
And it looks overwhelming.
John says in order to catch up with the clock sync, you're making us eat day 10, meal B, and the task is overwhelming.
Roger; understand. Is that why you scheduled the extra eat period tonight?
Just remember they come in pairs.
Roger.
We missed the one that was supposed to start 3 hours ago, or whenever it was.
Roger. I understand.
16, the decision has been made. We'll leave the suits stowed, and we won't worry about the PRD. And, also, we'd like to advise you that we're now back on the Flight Plan at 250 hours.
Okay; we'll take it.
All righty.
We sure appreciate you helping us. If you could have seen what we were looking at a couple hours ago, you wouldn't believe it. We couldn't - we had so much stuff piled up in here that none of the three of us could see each other, and that's the truth.
Roger.
Which the way we look right now, isn't really such a bad deal.
(Laughter) Roger.
John was reading the checklist, and Ken was down there - we couldn't even see him, and all of us - Every once in a while, a hand would come through this mass of Beta cloth and Mapping Camera cassettes and things, and reach out and grab something.
It's amazing to me you found a place to put it all.
Well, Ken's super well organized on that EVA, boy, I'll tell you. We just got - he's got everything all put away, and we're just about ready for entry.
Well, not quite. We haven't found a place to put all of it, to be honest with you. But we're looking.
Roger.
After 8 days, we finally got organized on this eating. Ken cuts it open, I fill it with water, and Charlie eats it.
Roger.
Hey, Houston, 16. The LMP is on biomed now.
Understand, LMP is on biomed.
And, 16, right now we're not getting a readable signal, but we're gonna run some checks here first.
Okay.
Okay. Charlie, apparently your biomed is still not functioning properly, and the surgeon would like to go to the CMP to monitor for tonight.
Okay.
And, 16, could you give us another reading on the battery compartment?
2.3, Houston.
Roger; 2.3.
Hey, Don, does that mean if I break mine tonight that I don't have to put it on again?
I'm not sure we'd concur with that.
Houston, 16.
Go ahead, 16.
Roger. Pete - Pete, we're wondering if you could get FAO working and - on the Mars attitude sequence and see if he could come up with one that - during our normal Flight Plan where we got some Sun in the windows, so we could get some interior photography?
Stand by. We'll take a look at it. Okay; FAO says he thinks he can...
I'd appreciate it.
FAO says he thinks he can work that in, and also we need to remind you, I guess, that we need a P52 before you go to bed tonight.
Roger. Just as - soon as John gets out of the kitchen, Ken's gonna give you one.
Roger. Understand.
We're just looking at the Flight Plan here, and we just finished Day 10, Meal B, and 10 minutes from now, we got to start on Day 10, Meal C.
Roger; copy.
That was John.
Roger. They said that sounds like some of the flight planning that's been going on down here.
If Alex - Pete, if Alexander the Great had had this kind of chow, he could feed his whole army for two days on what we eat in one meal.
16, we've got the torquing angles. You can go ahead and torque them.
Okay.
Hey, Pete. Will Tony be on before we go to sleep? He said he had some geology questions for us.
Doesn't look like it now. He's scheduled to be here in a couple of hours. Or maybe he might come in a little sooner than that.
Thank you.
And, 16; Houston. I've got about five items for you here that'll wind it up for the night, I think. First of all, I'll start out talking about this battery compartment. We've looked at it now, over quite a period of time, and we feel that the pressure rise is due to a very tight cabin battery compartment that prevents any leakage from the compartment to the cabin. And also to the increased battery venting. Now, the - the increased battery venting resulted from recharging the batteries longer than normal. And that in turn resulted from the high discharges during LOI and DOI burns. We really don't feel there's anything wrong with the batteries. In fact, right now, we're looking at a requirement from now until the end of the mission of about 30 amp-hours. And we've got about 100 amp-hours in the batteries right now. We'll continue to check the battery compartment pressure, but we really don't expect to have to vent the compartment or to perform any additional battery charging prior to entry. We'd like to get one more read-out prior to your going to sleep. We'll periodically check tomorrow, but in summary, we feel that there's really not a problem. And the odor that you mentioned is - is probably not from the battery compartment, but is more characteristic of the battery charger.
Okay, Pete. Thank you very much. It makes me feel better to - I was just a little gitchy about recharging, especially Bat B, since - that's where we first experienced that odor. We had not done that previously, and that makes that sound like a pretty good story. And we haven't been monitoring that compartment on the systems test meter very much, so we really can't give you a history of it. But that sounds pretty good to - to me. Thank you. What else?
Okay. We do want to monitor the CMP on the biomed, and I guess we're still showing that you're on the - on the - on the biomed monitoring system right now. Also, your equipment...
That's right.
Also, Charlie, your e...
Go ahead.
your equipment is apparently still not functioning properly. So we'll need new - a new biomed harness on you, probably for tomorrow night. We need to get that on sometime tomorrow.
Okay, fine. I'll be glad to do that. What - what appears to be wrong with the signal?
Stand by one.
They - they think it's the sensors are probably loose again with maybe some drying of the electrolyte under the sensors, but rather than try to troubleshoot that, they figure it's better just to go to a new harness.
Okay, will do. I just put these on this morning, new, but we'll - we'll - we'll swap out in the morning.
Hey, Don, what film magazines do we have allocated for our little - little - F-equals-MA experiment?
Hang on just a minute. I'll get it for you. Let me give you one more item here while I'm - then I'll get that for you. All right. We'd like to - Right after we go into PTC and get onto the Omnis, we'd like to put the Telcom Group 2 to AC2. The reason for doing that is we just want to return the spacecraft to a nominal configuration because that's the way all our doc - documents and onboard checklists and so on are written.
All right, we'll do that. When we spin up - go on the Omnis - we'll go to Group 2 to AC2.
Roger; thank you. And also, we'd like to get an OPS read-out sometime prior to your going to sleep tonight.
Okay. We gave you one earlier, and it's stowed in A-8 now. And it was 1300 at that time. You want another one?
Roger. I guess we'd like to get one more, Charlie.
That was plenty of time after it had - it was probably at least an hour and a half after it'd had a chance to - to equalize after the blowdown.
Roger. Okay, 16; if it's not readily accessible, that's okay. It's not that big a deal.
Is that all?
That's affirmative, 16. I believe that covers everything.
You know, Pete, on that battery, I took a peek at it every once and awhile during the EVA, and it didn't vent at all into the cabin.
Roger.
My only other question is, why does the - when you vent it to one, why does it climb so rapidly back up to about 16 or so?
Stand by a minute, Charlie. We're thinking about that.
Oh, on the questions on the trying to get some Sun in the windows tomorrow, you'll be in PTC a great deal of the time; and during the - a lot of those PTCs, you will have enough sunlight in the window for interior photography.
Okay, thank you.
Yeah. I just was wondering if one of the other periods might also place the Sun in our window. Because - when you do it PTC, although it comes by very often and you want to photograph a continuous sequence, it kind of chops it up pretty quickly. It takes an awful lot of planning to hit the lighting at the same time you want to do something.
Roger.
But it doesn't justify another attitude or anything like that. This is just so we can get some better pictures inside.
Okay; I'll see what I can do on that, Ken.
Okay, Ken. We've got Magazine 11 that's unscheduled and has CIN film.
Okay, thank you very much.
16, on the sunlight coming in the window in a fixed attitude tomorrow, the - the situation doesn't really look real good. About the best one, I guess, is at one point we'll have the Sun about 40 degrees from the normal to the hatch window and about 20 degrees - that's 40 degrees off in pitch and about 20 degrees off in yaw. So - and that's about the closest we have to having sunlight coming right down normal to any of the windows.
Ken, I think I said that was 40 degrees in pitch and 20 degrees in yaw, and it's actually 40 degrees in pitch and 20 degrees off in roll on that Sun angle...
Hey, Don, I just plugged back in. Would you say again, please?
Okay on this business of getting sunlight in the spacecraft windows, about the best we're gonna be able to do is one attitude gives you sunlight which is - if you take the normal to the hatch window, the Sun is about 40 degrees off of that in pitch and about 20 degrees off in roll. And that's about the closest we're going to have to having sunlight coming directly in a window. Oh, and, Ken...
Okay. Well, we'll do with what we have, then.
Okay; I've just been advised that that's not the hatch window, it's Window 5. And that attitude occurs about 269:30 in the Flight Plan.
Okay; well, we'll - we'll just get all the lights as bright as we can get them, and use the standard interior procedures.
Roger. That sounds like probably a better way to go.
I was just thinking if we had more illumination like that, that we could save ourselves a little time. Be a better pic...
That's a pretty nice, slow ride, Don.
Roger.
Okay, Charlie, are you on the loop?
Roger; go ahead.
Okay, on this battery compartment problem. The reason for it coming back up so rapidly right after you vented is that there is pressure built up in the batteries. And when you vent the compartment, the - the batteries simply then are venting to a very low pressure or see a very low pressure. And they tend to - to vent very rapidly for a while until you get the pressure built back up, and then they vent at a much slower rate.
Okay. Fine. That makes sense. Thank you very much.
Roger.
Houston, 16. We're going through the pre - presleep check - checklist. If you're ready, we'll send you an E-Mod.
Stand by one. Okay, go ahead.
And, Pete, y'all satisfied with our cryo configuration for tonight?
That's affirmative.
Don, do you want us to use standard High Gain procedures tonight?
That's affirmative, 16.
Okay; thank you, sir.
Okay, Ken. The rates look good for a spinup.
Okay.
And, Charlie, we'd like one more reading on the battery compartment.
It's almost about 2.4, Pete, about 2.35, I'd say now.
Okay; 2.35.
Yeah. It seems to have just about stabilized. I should say stabilized. At least the rate of increase is very slow, now.
Roger.
Hey, Pete. Do y'all want a E-memory dump?
Stand by a minute.
Did you say affirmative, Pete?
Stand by just a minute, Charlie.
Okay, and I'm going to AC2 on Telcom Group - AC2.
We' re ready for the memory dump, Charlie.
Charlie, we - we would like to get the memory dump, and we'd like to keep the High Gain until we get that.
Okay. Maybe I'm not up to speed. Do we lose the High Gain if I put Group 2 to AC2?
That's affirmative. That's - that's why I wanted to wait until we're on the Omni to make that switch.
I understand.
16, we're starting to see some very low SIM bay temperatures. We'd like to go ahead and get into PTC.
Okay.
And the rates are excellent right now.
And you see some low what, Pete?
Say again, Charlie.
You said you were beginning to see some very low something.
Can't read you, Charlie.
Okay, we're spinning up right now.
Okay.
Where do we stow the High Gain (garble)?
Okay, Pete, we're putting Telcom Group 2 to AC2.
Roger.
Okay, I put Gr - Group 2 to AC2. They said for some reason they lost the High Gain - they lose the High Gain.
(Garble).
Me, too. That's the way they want it.
(Garble).
No, we're - they're controlling the antenna.
They have - they can only control between Delta and what we have control of.
Well, I switched it to High Gain.
Do you think the High Gain will (garble)?
I'm turning the Voice, Off.
(Garble)?
(Garble), Charlie?
No. I done that last one.
Houston, 16.
Go ahead.
Pete, are y'all satisfied with our antenna setup?
Put Track Mode to Reacq and Narrow Beam.
Okay; you've got Reacq, Narrow Beam, and High Gain selected.
Okay. That's fine, Charlie. Thank you.
Okay.
(Laughter) I haven't (garble), John, (garble).
(Garble).
I get hot under there (garble).
(Garble).
(Garble) ditty bag.
Well, it's pretty (garble).
Yeah.
What we want to do is (garble).
Well, the way I sent them over is the way - is the way they were to be stowed because - they were - and that's the way we stowed them over there.
(Garble) That was the way we had stowed them (garble).
Yeah, but the decon bags that came (garble) in, too (garble).
16, Houston. I've got about three or four more little small items for you here. First of all, we'd like you to verify that you're going to use the OPS to bump the cabin up to 5.7.
Okay, Don. We will.
Okay. And, Ken, you look good on the - on the biomed data. It's all checking out okay. And there's a couple items on the Gamma Ray. We want to Retract for 12 seconds and Gainstep up four steps.
Okay. Retract for 12, and Gainstep up 4. Is that right?
That's affirmative. And let us know before you turn the voice subcarrier down.
Okay.
And, 16, could we get you to tweak the evap out temperature to about 45 degrees? Looks like it's about 38 right now, and that's going to be a little cold after you get into PTC.
Okay. 16, your evap out temp looks good now.
Okay, Don. I was just going to let it - see how it does - I just moved it to about the middle amount I could. And the OPS is now reading 800 psi.
Understand. 800 psi on the OPS. Thank you.
That's affirmative. And what else do you have before we call it a day?
Stand by one, but I believe that's got everything.
Okay, Ken, I guess that's it. You guys get a good sleep.
66-2/3 percent RDR. Who else is on down there with you tonight? Who is your Flight Director?
Say again, Ken?
I say who's - who's on with you tonight? Who's the Flight Director?
Don Puddy is on right now. We're getting ready to leave, and Gerry Griffin's going on.
Ah so. Okay. Well, I'm glad you guys are getting off at a reasonable hour for a change. Although I just looked at my watch, and I guess it's about 3:29 (laughter). Sorry about that.
It's pretty reasonable by comparison.
Appreciate all your looking out for us today.
Roger.
Okay. You're sure a big help in taking care of all the things we did today while we were trying to get things restowed up here. We still - You can see daylight now anyhow. So I'll see you folks tomorrow.
All righty now. See you in the morning.
