Good morning, Apollo 16; Houston.
Morning, Tony.
Good morning up there. Say, I think we may have driven your High Gain into the stops. Could you check on 225 the High Gain Flight Bus and Group 2? If one's out, push it in.
They're in, Tony, and can't move it.
Which ones were out?
They're in!
Okay, John, on that High Gain, could we put it to Pitch at minus 40, to Yaw at 90, Reacq, and Narrow?
Okay, that's where we are right now.
Okay, and we understand that no circuit breaker was popped.
That's correct. There was no circuit breaker popped.
Okay, thank you.
And, after you finish your post-sleep up there, before you stop PTC, we'd like to update your checklist or Flight Plan. We've got a couple of changes on the - the PTC initiation, there.
Changes on initiation before we stop, huh? Okay. Okay, don't blow our record, now.
Okay.
You're talking about the super gal, huh? I'm ready to copy, Tony.
Okay. Okay, for the PTC initiations at 260 plus 44 and 264:01, we'd like to change the PTC procedures and the G&C checklist to keep the PTC coning within plus or minus 3 degrees in pitch and yaw. Okay, if we could go to the G&C 8-2.
Okay, why don't you just tell me first what the general scheme is, how you're going to do that, while we're getting the book out.
Okay, fine. We'll use you B/D roll, but we'll keep the pitch and yaw jets - D3, D4, C3, and C4 jets - on. And we're gonna leave the roll jets on, too.
In other words, you want this thing to - to remain in attitude control throughout the PTC?
That's right.
Oh, delete the P from PTC.
You're right [laughter]. I guess we'd call it ATC now.
There you go. How about AGS? You got to figure out what that stands for, but it's better.
You're a scientist; that shouldn't be hard, Tony.
Active galaxy st - scan?
Do you want us to, try - that's very close. You get a 95.
[Laughter.] I want to quit your course.
(Laughter) Oh, It's right down there, John. How you doing on the High Gain? I don't know if you shifted to it or not; looks like we're where you could pick up, now.
We're gonna try it down here. If we lose comm, why, we'd like you to go ahead and try to acquire it yourself.
Oh, okay.
And let me know when you're ready with the G&C.
I'm ready. No. No.
Ken, Houston.
Go ahead.
Did you acquire or did we do that?
You did that.
Oh, good show. Okay, in the G&C Checklist, perform Steps 1 through 4. After the rates are damped in step 5 under the "Auto RCS select," use B/D roll and D3, D4, C3, C4 jets. And you might just sort of write this in at the side - not cross anything out because later on you'll go back to the normal procedure.
Roger; I understand.
Okay, in Step 6, use a minus 0.30 degrees a second, and 3.0 degrees in Noun 79.
Okay.
And delete the last two steps.
As long as we're remaining active, why - as long as we're remaining active, why are we trying to damp the rates, Tony?
Okay, I guess they're not going to let you - they're not going to ask you to damp it down too long. They're just going to get it down to a reasonable rate and then start it up.
Okay, and delete Step 7.
Okay. Roger. I understand.
Okay, and a note here for the PTC attitude at 275 plus 50 [251:03], use the normal PTC procedures. Okay, now we can go to the updating on the Flight Plan.
Okay, what you're really saying is that except for this - these two special things, we're just gonna do what we always do, right?
That's affirmative. I just say it the long way.
All righty.
Okay, from 262 plus 00 [237:13] to 262:20 [237:33], we're gonna schedule in some geology debriefing for EVA-3 for John and Charlie.
Okay; Tony, I got that - it's written down.
Okay, fine. At 264:30 [239:43], change "Purge O2 Fuel Cell 1" to "O2 Fuel Cell purge." And then right under that, cancel out all that Mass Spec exercise between 264:35 [239:48] and 264:45 [239:58]. Essentially, all you've done is take all that out and you've done an O2 fuel cell purge and then ended up with an H2 fuel cell purge.
Okay.
Okay at 267:00 [242:48]-
Go ahead.
Change our - the High Gain Pitch and Yaw to Pitch, 9; Yaw, 257.
Okay.
From 268:10 [243:23] to 268:40 [243:53] - You're gonna love this. Schedule a TV press conference.
You knew we had it stowed, didn't you?
Well, we just waited ...
You knew we took two hours to do that yesterday.
...until you had tucked it away.
Okay. Okay.
Okay, at 268:30 [243:43], delete "Charge Bat A."
That's done.
Okay.
Go ahead.
At 269:23 [244:36], delete "Alpha Particle/X-Ray Cover, Close; X-Ray, Standby; and Verb 49 maneuver to thermal attitude." Delete that whole block.
Okay.
Okay, delete all activities between 269:55 [245:08] and 270:10 [245:23] - Mass Spec, RCS jet test.
Go ahead, Tony.
Okay, at 270:50 [246:03], change your Verb 49 attitude to 090, 180, 010.
Okay, 090, 180, 010, at 270:50 [246:03].
Okay, and your High Gain attitudes there are Pitch, minus 75; Yaw, 40.
Minus 75 and 40.
And note that your Alpha Particle and X-Ray Cover are Open and X-Ray is On throughout the Skyli - Skylab contamination photos, so you just don't worry about that.
Okay.
At 271:15 [246:28], change your Verb 49 attitudes - 032, 299, 010.
Okay.
And your High Gain: Pitch, minus 40; Yaw, 229.
Okay, minus 40 and 229. And an attitude of 032, 299, and 010.
Okay, at 271:50 [247:03], change the roll in the Verb 49 attitude to 140. And the High Gain is ...
From 141 to 140?
...Pitch, minus - Right. And the High Gain's Pitch, minus 47, to Yaw - and Yaw, 59.
Minus 47 and 59.
Roger. At 272:10 [247:23] -
Okay.
Verb 49 attitude, 088, 082, 041, and the High Gain: Pitch, minus 49; and Yaw, 220.
Okay, that's 088, 082 and, 041, and a minus 49 and 220 on the gain.
Roger. At 273 [248:13], delete "X-Ray, On."
Okay.
At 273:30 [248:43], delete "Alpha Particle/X-Ray Cover, Open."
Okay.
At 274:15 [249:28], on your Verb 49 attitude -
All right.
New attitude is 164, 134, 035; High Gain is minus 23 and 101.
Okay; 164, 134, 035; minus 23 and 101 at 273.
Okay. And that's all I've got.
Okay.
Oh, shoot, Tony, you can do better than that. Haven't you got any more?
Well, we're - we're - I'm sure FAO will have some here in a few minutes, but that's guaranteed all until you get back.
Oh, okay. Well, good. I don't want to see FAO stopping this quick.
And I guess we don't know why that High Gain hung up while you were asleep. We're going to just continue trying normal procedures.
Okay.
You mean the experiment?
No.
(Garble).
What do you want - the shield?
That (Garble).
No.
That was the Gainstep.
Well, it's (garble), but it's shield on the bottom.
Oh. Oh. Excuse me.
Okay.
No wonder I couldn't find it. I'd be over there looking for a month.
(Garble).
Okay. Oh, that's why it didn't - that helps. I turned it off so I wouldn't keep you awake.
You thought - you thought my ears were going bad, huh? All right, we'll cycle our Cryo fans. I'll start the watch.
Good. I got the watch.
Speaking of starting watches, there's my watch. Come back here, you rat.
Excuse me, Charlie.
Okay, where's that Super Gal located? Is that where it's at, huh?
267.
I wasn't very far off.
I can't believe that they can tell any difference. That's roll - yaw.
We didn't scratch anywheres close, did we?
Why we went to 189 when we could have gone to exactly the opposite up here, I don't know (garble).
That doesn't make a lot of sense, does it?
No.
(Garble) in, but that doesn't (Garble).
Well, what's going on here?
It's not moving?
(Garble) here.
I don't - Well, we're supposed to swap, yeah.
Am I supposed to be on it all this time?
Huh?
Am I supposed to be on?
No.
What am I doing wrong, John?
I'm sure I don't know.
How come my DAP isn't running?
11101. Okay?
Why don't those needles center? I think you didn't get any power to that switch.
Check the group Rs.
Hey, Tony, I'd like to do a - a Verb 46 and I think that was one of the ones that they had on my list of things that I shouldn't do.
Okay. I'll check on that.
Could you - could you see what conditions I need to satisfy in order to do that?
Okay.
Like - I'm not sure whether I've got a switch out of position or what here, but it - it looks like the DAP isn't - isn't running. And I don't really understand why.
We'll work that.
Hey, I may have something out of configuration. I just don't see it right offhand.
I did find the switch.
How about our cycling the Cryo fans while we can take them back off.
Remembered it. Huh?
Did John forget to turn off the Cryos?
Yes, you can cycle the Cryo fans and our G&N says everything's all right here.
Okay. They're cycled. Yeah, we - I had the FDAI Select in 1; I was getting ready to do a GDC Align when you - when you're - asked for these other things and I left it there and the needles weren't centering, so I was - I overlooked that one. Thank you.
And, Ken, you're Go to start PTC any time you're ready. You're damped well enough.
Okay.
Okay, and the ATC is operating.
Okay.
(Garble) meals.
Yeah. Okay; now - you got 6½, Charlie, and no - and no medication?
No. That's right.
Yes...
Okay, Houston. Standing by with the crew status report.
Okay. Go.
Okay.
For the Commander, working on Day 11 to keep it in sync with the - with the clock around here. A-1 is down in the bow of the ship, stowed; A-3 is 7 hours; A-4 is none. For the CMP: B-1, 15067; B-3, 6½; B-4, none. For the LMP: C-1, 21159; C-3 is 6½; C-4 is none.
Okay, we copy that.
And all those sleeps were good to better.
Good to better, huh? Okay.
Okay, and we're using - Yesterday we were using the Day 10 meals to try to help clean out the B-2, so we can stow the Mapping Camera film in there, and on that day for breakfast, the - on the - on the CDR's, scratch the fruit cock - fruit cocktail.
Okay.
For dinner, scratch - for - for lunch, scratch the turkey and gravy and sub - substitute beef and gravy and add an orange drink, and then you can either scratch - We never got around to eating supper because we missed lunch and we substituted - we substituted sup - supper, or I mean lunch, for supper.
Okay, copy that.
And on the CMP for breakfast, scratch the fruit cocktail, the sausage patties, and the spiced fruit cereal.
Okay.
For lunch, scratch the vanilla pudding in a can; the white bread, 1; and the peanut butter parentheses WP; and add a chocolate bar and coffee.
Okay.
For the LMP, for breakfast, don't scratch anything. For lunch, or supper, your choice, scratch the - turkey and gravy and add beef and gravy and scratch the vanilla pudding in a can; the white bread, 1; and the peanut butter. Okay?
Okay. We copy that. Ken didn't eat his peanut butter, huh?
We couldn't find it after we cleaned out - after we cleaned out that locker to stow the Mapping Camera cassette, the peanut butter mysteriously vanished.
Oh, I understand. Charlie stole it.
We're looking for the guy - we're looking for the guy with the key to the peanut butter locker right now.
You know, of course, you're going to have to eat up all that food on the day you lost.
How about if we do that aboard the ship?
And, Apollo 16, the Gamma Ray Shield, On, per the Flight Plan.
Okay, she's On.
Okay.
Why would you...
Well, they were turning the power off there for a while because of a possibility that you - they thought that - you were sleeping, you might bang it.
Kick it off, huh?
Yeah. And I guess I can't say you couldn't do that, because I - I caught myself when I was - the times I was knocking switches was when I was moving around trying to do things.
I tell you, I fell asleep with my hand on the integral lighting the other day, and I - and it - and I woke up still holding on to it. Funniest thing I ever did in my life. Boy, that tape recorder switch's just going like crazy.
Okay. I (garble) to the last. If I eat all this, I'm going to explode.
What, Charlie?
If I eat all this, I'm gonna explode.
(Garble) peaches (garble).
I like those peaches, Ken.
Apollo 16, Houston. If one of you have a chance, would you read out the battery compartment pressure reading?
2 ...
2.5
...2.5 and holding.
Okay.
That's what it was - When it was get ...
(Garble).
Okay. Ken says he looked at it several times during the evening and it's been there most of the night.
Okay, fine.
Hey, John, could you spin around here? (Garble) behind you.
Yeah, Charlie. Just a second.
Sure.
Sir? Okay. Here's the Flight Plan. We're doing what we're supposed to be doing for a change.
Here you go, Charlie.
Thank you.
(Garble) Oh, no. Here's another - another whole package. Excuse me.
What have you got I can substitute for the cracking - for the grits?
(Garble).
Not for the grits, no. I don't want to hurt your feelings, Charlie. I mean for my coffee.
I'll get you some out of the food locker over here.
Yeah, maybe a dark drink. Not bad. You mix this with coffee and you know what you got? It's bad.
(Garble).
(Laughter) I'm going to try that and see what they say. (Laughter)
What is that?
I'm going to mix this with coffee and put it in - down in there and see if they can tell what it ...
(Garble) Why don't you do that?
Surprise.
Oh, oh (garble). That gonna be funny. (Laughter)
Charlie, these grits are all right.
They are (garble).
Mm-ham. Just what I'd always eat when I was starving down South.
Kept people alive.
Sure did.
Kept lots of people alive. You know the old saying.
I think these are better than the Skylab peaches.
What we used to say ~ what my roommate used to say - He was from New Jersey - he said you had to be near dead to eat grits. I'll never forget the time that he - we were going through - eating at the mess hall at Georgia Tech, and he thought he was getting some Cream of Wheat ...
Yeah.
...and they put it on his plate, and he couldn't understand why they didn't put it in a bowl. Man, he spit grits.
(Garble) had them.
He spit grits for 20 feet when he put them in his mouth - He thought they were trying to kill him.
(Garble) down, John (garble).
Yeah.
(Garble).
Sorry.
(Cough).
Well, another thing I ought to do a lot of exercise today. Get the old cardiovascular system back in shape.
First thing we ought to do is go to work on the Entry Checklist, right? Entry Stowage List?
What for? We haven't figured it out.
We could get the TV.
That's way back over here. Right on the very bottom of everything.
We should have thought of that.
Huh?
We should have thought of that.
(Garble) changing (garble).
Yeah.
I never could ...
What's that?
We're getting better. Started late and got through earlier.
That was real organized this morning, Ken.
It worked great. You just cutting that meat.
Yeah. That seemed to work out pretty good (garble) pretty good?
We should have done that all along - I guess.
Yeah. We should have (garble).
Don't know it, until you do it.
(Garble) ...
We ought to recommend that to the 17 guys.
The trouble is, you know, you try to talk to the guys before the flight about this and ...
(Garble) about a year before the flight.
...things like how you defecate, how (garble) you have to be. They ain't gonna listen.
Why, no.
What else (garble)(garble) probably won't pay any attention (garble).
The only - I did listen to Stu Roosa on that thing (garble) He said get naked and be prepared to get stuff all over your hands. And it happened.
(Laughter)
Just like he said, huh? There's no consolation in that.
Careful.
John, what can we do on the stowage or something that - maybe just to occupy my mind ...
Well, you know they got a geology debrief for you guys at 262 hours.
When is the press conference?
At 268.
(Garble).
And I really want to - I want to take some photographs of the - of the (garble).
Okay.
And I would like to take photos (garble) while you guys eat - interior photos (garble)?
Okay.
I really think - I need (garble) - the only thing that you could really have (garble) is plastic (garble).
You can't get that. I (garble) them my lightweight headset. I got to try that thing. Is there a way to get that? It's down there in the A-8, isn't it?
It's a pain.
I'm going to take mine off ...
...(garble) supposed to be. They're absolutely worthless.
You want to wear these things for the press conference?
Think that's only way they can hear you.
Okay.
That's wh - one reason I've been wearing mine all the time is it's the only way I can get Houston. The DSE won't pick up the lightweight set hardly at all, unless you do what Charlie is doing, otherwise you won't be (garble).
Probably be better if you ...
Take off your neck.
(Garble) you in.
(Garble)?
Yeah.
Thank you.
(Garble).
Open?
How many did we have? (Garble).
Wonder why they wouldn't be happy just to have a press conference on the radio?
Too (garble) of the (garble).
Oh, is that right?
I don't know - I don't know how we're going to set this thing up.
You can set it right back here on this bracket, John.
Oh, yeah.
And point it right - it'll - and point it to the LEB, and we can all three get in the picture.
I'll get in the (garble) while you guys can get in the picture, okay?
That's at 262 - 262 you say we got a geology debriefing?
Where does this here go, I wonder? I wonder if they think that this thing is supposed to stay in here with a ...
Yeah.
...pressure suit.
That'll go.
Oh, I'm sure it will. I just - (garble) like (garble) have had it in there because actually it won't go (garble) ...
Yeah.
(Garble) a box of (garble)?
Oh, maul going to be (garble).
Hey, let me - let me - Okay, Charlie ...
That's your friend.
Charlie, don't stomp it like that. Let me see if I can get this in there. Okay?
I think you can now (garble). I got some (garble) going in there. Well, I'll just let them float by you.
I know what I'm gonna do - brush up my teeth.
(Garble) (laughter).
No, I don't have the urge yet, you guys. It'll be a couple of more hours. Right in the middle of the press conference.
Right.
Well, we got to sign off now.
Apollo 16, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay. I tried to get Hank to send this up, but he wouldn't touch it either. I guess we'd like John on the biomed today and Charlie on it tonight. And just a reminder, for today we'd like items 5 and 6 in the crew status recorded.
Yeah, we - We're working both of those problems in.
Okay, and we'd like to scrub the P52 at 262:30.
That was the only thing he had that he's looking forward to all day, and you scrubbed it.
You know how to hurt a guy, don't you?
We're just trying to give you some time to hunt for the peanut butter.
(Garble).
No, I don't. They want John on biomed. Me tonight.
You know, when I put my biomed on, my heart starts hurting (Garble).
Why don't we stick the pills down the Volkswagen pouch, Ken?
I'm going to get in my seat to put this biomed on so it won't interfere with anybody.
Okay.
Hey, John.
If it won't interfere with anybody, I will.
Hey, John. Why don't you quit getting up out - in your seat? Nice place to put the biomed on.
That's right; my heart feels good.
(Garble) get outside on EVA (Garble).
(Laughter) Shall we tell them that?
To what, did he say?
Charlie, you going to have to help me position these.
Okay; I'll be glad to.
The little dealies are right here.
Oh, yeah?
On the other end. Right - right here are the stickums, and the - and the sponges are in here.
(Sneeze, sneeze) There I go again.
Don't hurt your eyes, Charlie ...
Apollo 16, Houston. Whenever you're ready for the geology, we'll press on with that.
Ready, John?
Yeah, we're ready.
Okay. Our first question here on the portable magnetometer - I forgot to re - I forgot to ask you. It was my omission. I was wondering what the temp label on the - on the electronics box read, if you remember.
Tony, you got to be kidding.
I was afraid of that. Okay. And for Charlie there, we'd like to verify that on the third EVA when he was driving out to Station 11 with the polarizer on, that he used nominal camera settings. He didn't allow for the polarizer.
I did just what was on the top of the camera, Tony. Filter - I used 5.6 at 1/250 in the right position.
Okay. That's fine - that's great - That's what we needed to know. Okay. The next question we'll - we'll get when we get the rocks back, but I think - Well, maybe the best way to do this is to describe a theory that's coming up as a result of the rocks you've - that you saw there. It looks as if - or - A possibility is that an older theory that was discarded a few years ago may be the right one, that the Cayley is an outer fluidized ejecta from Imbrium. Fra Mauro would be an inner ring, and then Imbrium sculpture would be outside of that, and then the Cayley would be sort of slosh that filled up all the valleys farther on out. But some of the questions that the geologists are - are pressing here is something that might help them define that. And a lot of it is that they're just - can't wait for the rocks to get back. But anyway, at Station 11, you described some rocks you thought to be tuff. Looking back at Station 5 and 6, after seeing these at 11, do you think you might have seen the same kind of rock there? What we're thinking about is where you described the - the square crystals and the needle-like crystals in clasts. And also, in the same question, were these crystals by themselves or were these - I mean, were the cras - clasts single crystals or were the crystals in clasts?
Recalling Station 11, the - the rocks - that big rock in particular was a two-rock breccia, and - I feel. And within the - within the bluish-black matrix, which made up one clast - one of the rock
Okay. And how - how does - how did those rocks compare to what you saw at station 5 - 5 and 6?
I knew they were going to ask these questions. I - may be -
Tony, I'm afraid I'm not gonna do any better with the answer to these questions than I do on an average field geology trip where you got 10 stations.
Understand.
And the rocks - You know, the rocks that we're picking up at 5 and 6 - that was a long time before Station 11 and -
Understand. Don't - don't worry about it ...
And I can't remember what the dang rocks looked like, to be honest with you.
We're gonna have an antenna switch.
I think there were some of the same, John.
Yeah, but I mean it's entirely speculative to answer a question like that on ...
Okay. I'll try to stick here to questions that were impressions, and we're going to get the rocks back anyway. I don't - I don't really think there's any point in pressing - pressing with questions where we'll get the answers in a few days. Outbound on EVA-3, you noted one to five-meter craters. And then, 10-meters craters going north and you called them secondaries. We're wondering what evidence there was that - if any, that they came from North Ray. Do you think you saw any secondaries from North Ray? And if so, where would they be? And could you compare them to the size and character of the South Ray secondaries?
There was out - out around Palmetto. There were a couple of craters, if I recall - I don't know - exactly whether it was Palmetto or not, but as you're going out that way, there were some craters with some blocks in them. And that's the reason I called it secondary. They - they were not as fresh - in fact, craters going toward North Ray were a lot more subdued than the craters going down to Stone Mountain. The North Ray had - something had - either they're older or something, but they were a lot more subdued and there was less blocks around. But we did have one or two that had some blocks in them, and that's why I called them secondaries.
Okay. Were the blocks as angular as the ones you described from South Ray?
In general, our impressions were no.
Okay. As you were coming off of - and going up into North Ray area, could you give a guess at the relative proportions of - and the size and shapes of the white and the dark rocks.
In other words, was there a change ra - radially outward from North Ray?
Yeah, this is just an impression, Tony. But I'd say that the - that the dark rock was less prevalent as you went outbound, generally speaking - as you went away from the crater.
Okay.
I could be 100 percent out - wrong on that. But we sure drove over a lot of - in the regolith there in particular. The upper layer in regolith, which contained these - I mean the - the ejecta blanket - which contained - the upper layer in the ejecta blanket contained a lot of boulders with just their heads sticking through, and those were the ones I was looking at because I was trying to go around them. And they - and I don't ever remember seeing a - a dark brecc - breccia-like rock in those boulders.
Okay, sounds good. And that very large rock you sampled up there, Charlie, you mentioned there was white and dark rock in the one rock. Could you describe the contact? Was one contained in the other, or did the contact meander through the whole rock?
Just sort of meandered through, Tony. It was a - it was a - again I'll say a two-rock breccia, where it was a white and the black. And the clasts were very large, up to a meter size. I think the - the predominant rock was black. At least, the overall color gave you a black, but when you looked closely, you could see white clasts in it. So the - and the contact just meandered. I think we've got a couple of close-ups of - of how the contact just meandered through. It was sort of a angular clast in this predominantly blackish matrix.
Okay. The white rock, was it - that was in this big boulder - was it like the white rock that you sampled to the southwest of where you parked the Rover?
Yes, it was all - yes, uh-huh.
Okay. Incidentally, that shatter cone that. you saw on the big boulder - Did it - Did the surface on the cone go right through the clasts, or did the clasts poke out kind of like nodules on the cone?
Well, they - No, it didn't. The shatter cone was in - was fortunately, or unfortunately, depending on your point of view, in - in the black matrix. And it was - it was a crystalline rock where the shatter cone occurred.
Okay. Understand. Okay. Now that you've seen both North and South Ray ejecta blocks, could you say a few - a little bit about the ray material in the area from the LM to Flag? Do you feel that all that material is characteristic of the bigger ray blocks that you identified near either North Ray or South Ray?
Yeah. I ...
Go ahead.
I guess my impression might be that some - at some places, we had some of each and - but most of it was from South Ray. And around the LM, I'm - We saw - Once we got going toward North Ray, those - that material around the LM, by gosh, the breccia - and I collected several of them at that last Station - in hand specimens - some of them were like the material we got out of South Ray, clear of South Ray blanket, and - but several of them were from North Ray. At least, that was my impression.
Okay. Understand, We always had the feeling ...
I'd say the most of them for - from South Ray.
Okay. We seem to have the feeling that the rocks you were describing in the LM area were just somehow just a little bit different than what you were picking up either down South or up North. I guess we'll get that all straight when the rocks get home.
Tony, I think that's - that the breccias were different. We've been - Maybe I'm going way out on a limb when I say this, but you - we've been collecting little fragments that have been floating around the cockpit here and looking at them, and they're crystalline - crystalline fragments that - with little white powdery exterior on part of it, and it - chalky appearance. And to me, this is - was characteristic of the rocks - some of the rocks around the Cayley, which - now I'm really leading to a tuff breccia - but the matrix being the ash with these crystalline frags, and the crystalline frags looked just like the rocks - the crystalline rocks around North Ray. At least, the black ones - at least, the couple I found here floating around. Now that's not to say that the fragments are - there are some fragments from whitish rocks, but they were a little bit dif - more difficult to see in this white matrix of what looks like tuff now, because it's very powdery.
Okay. Understand. I wonder if you could describe that - those vesicles in that rock at Station 13.
Well, they looked like - I call them drill holes. Let's see if John has a different word for it.
They look like those pipes that you see in rocks. Like Charlie says, they just look like drill holes.
Okay. Understand ...
And they were about a couple of - up to 2 to 3 centimeters across.
Okay ...
...in diameter, and perfectly circular. It appeared to me to be.
And how deep did they go? Could you tell - I mean, did they go straight in, or did they seem to meander around?
They seemed to go straight in, and I couldn't tell how deep they were, because they only go in a - They disappear from sight. I didn't try reaching into any of them.
Okay.
Tony, they were - there wasn't anything in them. You could just look in and you'd just - and they looked clean, and - and - just like somebody drilled out the rock.
How about the orientation? Were they all perpendicular to the surface, or did they all have a preferred orientation?
I got the impression that they were parallel to the - to the surface. The rock was - As you stood and faced the rock, you could see - see these little holes sticking out at you that - with most of them parallel to the - to the regolith.
Okay. How about when you went around on the other side? Did they poke out at you there, or were the - What I'm trying to get a feeling is - Did it indicate a top and bottom in the rock, or did it just poke out all over the rock?
I'm - We don't - we only remember seeing them on one side, Tony. And that was the south side or the east side of the rock. The rock was facing - the side we saw them on was away from North Ray.
Okay. Understand.
You need some help with that, John?
I'll make it, I think. It's run off somewhere.
Okay. And - Stand by.
Okay. Charlie, just before you left the - or during the LM closeout time, you started to make a remark about the change in character between the regolith - between the LM area and Stone Mountain, and somehow we got interrupted there and you didn't finish your statement. I wonder if you could finish what you're going to say - if you happen to remember? Can you characterize the difference in regolith between the LM area and Stone Mountain?
Stand by one on that one.
Okay.
Did -
What you say, Charlie?
Those two regoliths seemed to be pretty - pretty much the same, sort of loosely consolidated and you sink right in. The one that I thought was impressive was up at North Ray where you - where it was very shallow, and you didn't sink in at all. Did you - do you remember anything being different about the two regoliths - between the LM and Stone?
No, I sure don't. We never stopped between the LM ...
No, I mean between - say, up on Stone Mountain and at the LM.
Well, the one up at Stone Mountain was clearly a - We just sunk in more because of a lot of down-slope debris ...
Yeah.
...in there. I'm sure of that.
Tony, I think that - We're just sitting here trying to decide - recall, and I - right now the only impression is that you tended to sink in more up on Stone Mountain, which could be down-slope movement of particles, and - It was a - just very loosely consolidated up there. Everywhere you'd - you'd step, you'd sink in a couple of inches. And on the slopes around the LM, it was the same way. And even, in fact, where we landed. Up around the ALSEP site, it was very loosely consolidated, and as you walked you could - your foot would leave quite a imprint. And once we had pretty well turned over the surface around the LM and up on Stone, it would look like freshly raked ground and - to me. Stone Mountain - Smoky Mountain - or excuse me, North Ray, wasn't like that at all. It was very thin regolith and as we commented, we had a tough time raking because it was so rocky right up - within a couple of centimeters, at the top of the regolith. Over.
Okay. Understand. I think your down-slope movement there on Stone was probably - probably right. Although that wouldn't explain why it was harder at 5 and 6 than at 4. Well, anyway. Next question here - On that half-orange-sized rock that you put on the LPM, wonder if you could estimate - estimate how common that type rock was around.
Well, John picked up one just like it up on - It was a grab sample up on Sto - yes, Stone Mountain. And it was one of the crystalline rocks with that sugary crystalline texture to it.
Like whitish rock?
Huh?
It was the whitish rock?
Huh? Yeah. And it was one of those whitish rocks that was a little dusty. I think that - I think it's fairly common. We'll just have to see when we get the samples back, but it was my impression it was one of the three predominant rock types there.
Okay. Understand. And the soil at Station 8 - was it white underneath the top surface like you described up at Station 4 and a lot of other stations?
I can't remember. I don't think so. Do you remember that, John?
We kicked - we kicked some of that, and I - I can't remember whether it was or not at Station 8.
Okay.
I think it - Anyway, we sampled the soil sample there, and it's in the - it's in - it's in the box somewhere. But I can't - I certainly can't remember whether it was a - white underneath or not.
Okay. Understand. And just subjectively, could you compare - now that you've been up fairly close to Smoky and on Stone - could you compare the two - two structures?
They looked the same to us.
Okay. Well, that's all of the geology...
I - Okay, I wouldn't be surprised but what they aren't the same. When Ken and I and Charlie looked at it in this real low Sun angle, I - I guess that's - As far as geometric form, it certainly looked - it was the hummocky material from the Descartes region is the way it looked. Right across Smoky - right through that whole region, it looked like a single unit, and - and I guess that would be my interpretation of it at this point. But it's pure speculation, but I would guess that tonight. I wouldn't be surprised but that we don't find a lot of these rock types on one region very close to another region being about the same.
Okay. Understand. The reason...
Tony - That was - I was just going...
Go ahead, Charlie.
...to add to that, I was just - I had the same impression. Looking at the - the South Ray, with the black and white streaks up the wall - up on the interior of the crater, and also at Baby Ray, being very stark in contrast. And then in North Ray, having that same impression but more subdued. And the rocks appearing to be very similar - I think there's a good lateral - and you guys can demolish this when you analyze the rocks, but right now my impression is that - the - the two craters penetrated are very similar - or two very similar rock units. The white and the bluish black.
Okay. Understand. The reason for a lot of these questions - and we know the answers are in the rock boxes and bags there and we'll all get when you get home. But there's a lot of interest since the model - the model that we have of the whole area is being changed because of the high aluminum to silicon ratios and because of all of your rock descriptions there. And everybody's ...Well, we switched antennas there. There's a lot of push here to reformulate a new model. The press is kind of pushing, and you'll probably get some questions this afternoon in your press conference. I was wondering if there's anything you wanted to ask the geology team about this - this new model, since I don't think you've ever been briefed on it.
No, I'd sure never heard it was slosh from the Imbrium at the Cayley.
I'd say it's premature to be making those kind of statements, Tony. And I would like to wait until we get all that data in and take a look at it. It's just too soon to be on - on hearsay and - and - and not having the real evidence and not having the - all the data analyzed. It's too soon to be making any major conclusions about the region. It's just - I can't see how you could do that.
I sure agree with you, John. But, you know, everybody's - Everybody's excited and trying to press with it. But, anyway, I thought you might want to - to hear a little bit about that, if you're going to be asked on it this afternoon. That isn't - Now, of course, that isn't to say anyone's saying that Kant Plateau or Descartes Highlands are slosh. It's just the Cayley part. Anyway, that's all - that's all we have here, if you just want to press on there.
No, I just don't see how you can come to that conclusion this quick without any evidence, Tony. It's - It'd be nice to do that, but I - boy, I would - I would not press for that sort of thing this early in the game. And I wouldn't answer questions to anybody to amount to anything on that kind of stuff because that's too speculative.
Okay.
In other words, it ain't good - it ain't good science.
Yeah, John. I think - I think you're right on, and I hope they heard you in the backroom, because I - I think I said the same thing this morning.
And we have a slight change to the Flight Plan at 264:10. We'd like to change the Noun 79 deadband to 2 degrees.
Okay. The Noun 79 changed to 2 degrees at 264:10.
Roger. And I'll see y'all tonight. I'll come back and tuck you in.
Okay, Tony. Thank you.
Thank you.
Apollo 16, Houston.
Hello.
Go ahead, Henry. Good morning to you.
Good morning. Like to give you a little change here - or an addition, I guess, at 264:50 [240:03] - waste water dump. Says there we're supposed to specify the percentage and that's 35 percent. However, we'd like to call the start and stop - start and stop of that maneuver. EECOM would like something to do this morning.
Okay. You going to put us in attitude and do a midcourse correction with it?
I don't guess we need that ...
Tell EECOM we got some - Hey, Henry. Tell EECOM we got some good pictures of a dump when we were station-keeping up there while y'all were deciding whether we could land. Ken did his dump, and we had perfect lighting for it and so we got some DAC film of it and it was really coming out of there.
Not only that, he had perfect position on the station-keeping when he started to dump and it just pushed him right over to the - It just pushed him right over out of plane.
Hey, I bet that was pretty, too, wasn't it?
Yeah.
See how that stuff powders off on your fingers. Look at that. Look at that white come off. Then that leaves that crystal. Now, you got nothing left but the crystal.
Slosh from Imbrium. What a bunch of bull. (Laughter)
I wouldn't believe that in a million years.
Yeah.
They got - they got a new model for the - the Cayley. They said it - Oops! - they say it's slosh - it's a slosh from Imbrium.
Bull.
That's my opinion, too.
That - If it is, then that's a slosh all over the back side of the Moon.
Yeah. John and I were just talking. Our - my theory is that the Cayley - We did see some endogenic craters and that - and that - the Cayley is really a tuff breccia - the - the - the plain, and it - because the crystals in this tuff are the same - like this one right here - looked the same as those big rocks that we found up at North Ray and also in the adja - in the secondary craters out of South Ray. So underneath, you could hypothesize a model, and the rocks might prove me entirely wrong ...
16, Houston. I've got a few deletions in your Flight Plan.
...you could hypothesize ...
Hey, there you go.
...a model of an underlying ...
Just a second.
...crystalline basement.
You got a pencil, Charlie?
Huh? Yeah.
(Garble).
Huh?
(Garble).
No, it's not, either. Somebody swiped it.
I just don't find any (garble) basement rock anywhere (Garble).
I'm not - I'm not - I'm not saying total basement; I'm just saying ...
Okay. Go ahead.
...crystalline rock. And they were crystalline, Ken, just a sugar ...
Okay, at 266 hours.
Huh? They were not breccias, I guarantee you.
266 hours. Go.
Roger. Delete "Gamma Ray, Shield, Off."
You could see the cry - that rock was a homogeneous rock, and you could see the crys - you could hold it out, and you could see the crystals.
And a little further down there at about 266:15, delete that whole line where it refers to the "Gamma Ray, Gainstep, On," et cetera.
Just tells me that I found a rock that's a crystalline rock, and it's not a breccia in the true sense of the word.
That somewhere down there ...
(Garble) breccia. (Laughter) (garble) ...
That's deleted.
Okay. And at 268 hours, at the top of the page - Page 374.
That's right, but that is not the ...
(Garble) say accretion (garble) never have (garble) down there ...
Go ahead.
Delete that Gamma Ray comment.
Do what?
(Garble) never had (garble) accretion (garble) ...
Okay. Go ahead.
Well, accretion does mean molten.
That's all of them for right now. Thank you a lot, fellows.
(Garble).
Huh?
Okay.
(Garble).
I'll tell you what I saw.
Okay. I'm coming (garble) Maybe I'm just getting . ..
Later on in the day, we're gonna do some of these gainsteps, but we'll call them real time.
Huh?
(Garble) be another (garble) difficult.
Okay ...
Oh, sure.
Okay. We'll be awaiting your call.
But in the - in the - in the small little model of the 12 kilometer ...
Or where else would we be?
[Laughter] Roger.
...the 12 kilometers that we visited, that is - that is a hypothesis that could - could work. That might not hold true for anywhere else but right there.
(Garble) hypothesis? You have to prove it if it's a hypothesis.
I know - I'm saying - it could be totally wrong that - and it's not even a hypothesis, it's a - an impression I have right now - that - and the impression could be proved totally wrong when they look at the rocks.
(Garble).
Observations in the rocks we picked up.
(Garble).
That the rocks in that South Ray ejecta are the same as the rocks at North Ray. So at least to the depth that they penetrated, there was some crystalline rocks at least to those depths - at those depths. The rocks came out, and there they are; they got to come from somewhere . And then, covering this - all this, and probably ...
(Yawn)
...predating, at least predating the - the - the event, the South Ray event, there was a volcanic episode of - of - of pretty pyroclastic nature that created a tuff breccia, and the clasts in the brec - in the tuff are the same as the rocks - as the crystalline rocks that you brought back from the secondary craters.
(Garble) hypothesis (Garble).
Well, I think they've oversimplified the thing.
They do.
The first thing, I think, is that probably that whole area was a big impact thing to start with, see? So then on top of that then happens all these things that Charlie's talking about, and then after that - a while later - happens the Imbrium event.
Yeah.
And I don't think the Imbrium event had beans to do with what went on there. Because I don't think any of those rocks look anything like what they - those guys got up on the -
Me either. The Fra Mauro ...
Fra Mauro or anything.
The rocks are totally different. None of them - they don't - we did not see one rock that looked like any of the other Apollo rocks, not one. Not one!
We'll tell them that today at the press conference.
Well, I can say it in truths. I don't think.
I don't, either.
Ken, sometime when it's convenient - anytime you can get to it, we'd like to get a film status.
They want a film status, Ken, anytime you can get to it.
(Garble).
Okay, Henry. He'll - Thank you.
Roger. No rush on that, Charlie. Just whenever you work it in.
Okay. You mean you want him to pull out every magazine and see how it's doing, or what do you want?
Let me see how detailed they want it.
And ask why: I mean, because we got some of these things stowed where you wouldn't believe. It's not gonna be too easy. We're gonna have to take the entry stowage apart to get at them.
We don't want to out-stow anything. If he - If he's got it written down up there somewhere, that will be satisfactory; whatever his records show. If he doesn't, let's just forget about it.
Okay. Understand.
Hey, Henry?
Roger.
What are you looking for? What are you looking for, Henry? Maybe I can - I can help you. If you you're looking for mags that have film on them, I can - that might not be so hard to track down, but - do you just want to know what pictures we took?
We got an antenna switch coming.
Ken, I haven't gotten a real satisfactory answer on this. Apparently, this is for the Photolab. They just kind of want to got - get an idea of your usage. But the way it looks to me, I wouldn't - I wouldn't do anything special, unless you got it written down there somewhere.
Okay, Henry. You can tell the Photolab that they're in real trouble, because they're going to be developing film for a long time.
Okay.
Most of the 70s are - are - are already exposed, with maybe like 10 frames remaining on each or something. And the 16s, I don't really know what their status is. We'd have to go through and look at each mag. It's my impression that most of them are only partially used. There's about four that I can think of offhand are empty. And we'll know all that as soon as we get out of the ship.
Okay. That's good enough, Ken.
Thank you, sir.
Charlie, your better half says she would like for you to bring your mustache home with you.
I'm not gonna do it.
Roger.
Henry, what she said was - she said was she'd be tickled if Charlie brought his mustache home with him.
Roger. (Laughter)
I can't wait to shave this off. We've had a little failure with this shaving gear and that's our prob - that's been our problem.
Roger. Understand.
Hey, Henry. I got the biomed hooked up now. Ask the friends on your left there how it looks.
Okay. Looks good.
Okay. How does it feel?
(Laughter)
Hey, Henry.
Yes, sir.
Can you tell us if we have the tape recorder running on board in a forward direction, so we can record on it. And looks like we need about an hour's worth of tape. Or are they in a playback cycle, or what are they doing?
Okay, I'll check it, Ken.
Thank you.
We're gonna start checking these light flashes.
Okay. The Tape Recorder is in Rewind and as soon as we get an antenna switch, we'll start it off for you.
Okay. I still think these things are manufactured by the same guy that makes the emperor's clothes.
[Laughter.]
Don't believe it. They're everywhere! They're everywhere!
(Garble) doing that?
(Garble) medical kit back. I'm gonna get the salve out of there and give my arm another dose.
How's it looking? Staph got to it yet?
It's just - it ain't gonna - it ain't gonna get infected.
In an environ ...
It's already infected.
In an environment like this?
It already is infected.
I would expect the staph germs run around here two or three times a day, just taking a big bite out of it (laughter).
That stuff's supposed to be pretty good, isn't it?
No, it ain't worth a darn.
(Garble).
It ain't worth it.
Sure?
Yeah. All it is is some mild antiseptic. That's all it is.
Oh, (garble) local antibiotics get absorbed in the tissues and all that stuff.
(Garble)?
16, your Tape Recorder is running Forward.
Thank you, Henry.
Watch your foot there, Charlie.
Wait a minute, John. You got to put this back in there.
Oh.
There you go.
I think I'm losing my mind.
Houston. We're having to take drastic measures. Our commander has lost his mind.
(Garble) ...
Take over the ship and go to Mars.
I'm good at this. Turn off the lights (laughter).
The only reason we're doing this experiment is because Charlie excels at it (laughter).
My feelings are hurt. I can see them, too, a little.
Man, I don't - I have been looking for those darn things. Maybe I'm looking too hard or something. I can't see anything. It's really frustrating.
16, Houston. The light-flash folks request that if you see one of those things and - identify yourself when you call the mark so they - if the tape is bad, they'll be able to still tell who made the mark.
Okay.
Apollo 16, Houston. The PIs say that you should be calling your Marks also down on the loop - on the air to ground.
...I think Charlie's seen about seven or eight.
Roger.
They're just not coming out too well today, Hank.
Mark. There's one, Henry, for you - right eye - that's Duke. On the bottom - bottom of the right eye is a little bright dot.
Roger.
Mark. In the outboard of the left eye - Young. A dot flashed that terminated toward the center.
Mark. Soft photoflash in the center of the - center right of the right eye - Young.
Mark. Dot in the upper left center of the left eye - Young.
Mark. Light streak in the lower part of the left eye - Young.
Mark. Duke - right eye, upper center - a thin white streak.
Mark. Young - and in the upper right eye, a couple of streaks from - looked like they were going from left to right - out at - about 2 o'clock out.
Mark. Duke - bright dot, lower center, right eye.
Mark. Duke - right eye, upper outboard, a bright dot.
Mark. Duke - upper right eye - right eye, upper center, a bright dot.
Mark. Bright dot, very center, right eye - Duke.
Mark. Duke - upper right eye - a fuzzy flash.
Mark. Young - a streak at the top of the right center of the right eye, going from - going out the top.
Okay, Hank. The first part of that - I was looking out the plus-X. Now I'm turning over on my right side and I'm looking out the Y-axis now - out Window 5. And I'll see if that's going to make any difference.
Okay, Hank. On the first part of mine, I was - first 30 minutes, I was right side up in the LEB with my head against the optics covers. And now I'm upside down in the LEB with my head against the optics covers to see if that makes any difference.
Roger. Copy.
Mark. Faint white dot on the left eye, lower inboard - Duke.
Mark. Duke - lower right eye - a faint, fuzzy flash.
Mark. Young - left eye - a streak going from top to 'bottom in the - in the outboard part of the left eye.
Mark. Duke - right eye, lower center - a bright dot.
Mark. Bright dot - upper right eye - Duke.
Mark. Left eye - bright dot - Duke - outboard.
Mark. Duke - a fuzzy flash in the upper left eye, simultaneously with a bright dot in the right eye.
Mark. Upper left eye - little faint dot. That was Duke.
Apollo 16, Houston. We show your ALFMED period up.
Okay.
And, 16, when you get ready to maneuver to this new attitude, if you don't have Bravo 1 enabled, your present jet configuration is okay.
Okay, Hank. I'll check it.
That new attitude I went to was great, Hank. I almost went to sleep.
Roger. And I gather that ALFMED must be a pretty effective shield. I didn't hear Ken saying anything.
He wasn't supposed to use it.
We already did that on the outbound leg.
Oh, okay.
He was doing something, but it was all audible.
(Garble), Ken.
Oh, yeah. I'll get it.
We ought to clean this. This hose has gotten filthy
What's filthy?
That hose - that inlet hose on my side ...
(Garble) some - tape?
Need a piece of tape.
I'll get it for you, Charlie, (Garble).
Okay.
You got the Flight Plan or something?
John's got it.
Yeah, I got it. Here you go, Ken. Too-do-do-do.
And John's got a pencil, bet you.
Yeah, I got the pencil you bet me. We ain't got too many pencils. I hope we can get back without too many more Flight Plan changes.
(Laughter)
Shucks, I don't see the tape. There it is. We should have brought the tape over from the LM.
It's right down here.
I know it. I forgot it. Oh, (Garble).
Here you go, John.
Hank, what was the jet you wanted to have me turn off?
B3?
Roger. Bravo 1, so it won't fire in the SIM bay.
Bravo 1.
...If you used Bravo 2 and Delta 1 for roll, you'll be okay just to leave that configuration and maneuver on to the next attitude.
You want to use Bravo 2 and Delta 1. Is that affirmative?
That's affirmative.
When do we get to dump urine, man? I got to dump so bad I can taste it.
Why don't you go in that - squirt it in that white bag?
Okay.
It's a while before we get to dump.
I recall.
Okay, Hank. They - that's not the jet configuration they gave us this morning because I did have the SIM bay jets - No, I'll have to look up those jets I had this morning, but Bravo 1 was one of the ones I had turned on.
Roger. We understand that, Ken. The reason is that when we stop the PTC the - we're - in the configuration you had, you'd probably use - you'd have to use Bravo 1 to stop it, and it would fire into the SIM bay. It probably never fired during the PTC.
Okay.
I see what you mean.
Boy, you have been frugal on the gas, Ken.
It ain't stopping. How come?
What ain't stopping, Ken?
Oh, you can't do that. That's right.
Hey, we get to dump here in just a minute, John.
What time?
In about 50 minutes.
How nice.
That's gonna be minus 40 and Yaw 90.
On the high gain?
Yeah.
Wonder what we got.
It's Reacq.
From Reacq to Narrow.
Okay.
(Yawn).
Now, you went and changed dead band to 2 degrees in there (garble) ...
That's right, I did.
Oh.
For this. And I didn't know whether that - what that'd do - they said to change Noun 79 dead band to 2 degrees. I didn't know what number that was.
That's good. You did it right.
When's the press conference? It's a long ways from now, isn't it - 4 hours?
(Yawn) Yeah.
Hank, this one you want to do is a normal PTC? Or do you want to use this one as a - as the enabled jet version.
Roger, Ken. We'd like to do it in that same procedure that - that Tony read to you this morning. And, for the next one at about 275:50, we'll go back to the regular procedures.
Okay. And you want to use the same jets that Tony read me this morning?
Roger. And those, I guess, should be the ones you have enabled now.
Except I got - this morning I had all B/D Rolls enabled.
Okay, we'd like to start up in single jet, which is what you have now.
Okay. I'll use the jet configuration I have now, then.
Roger. And, I guess - did Tony read you the change that we wanted the 2-degree dead band?
Yes, sir.
Okay.
And how about the rate? Now, he read me 0.3 this morning, and normally we do 0.42. I take it 0.3 is what you're really after.
Let me double-check that one.
Okay, 0.3 is the correct rate.
Okay.
And, Ken, when we get to attitude, we'd just like to hold that before you start the P20, so we can dump the tape recorder.
Okay.
Ken, we need to get the High Gain, and I guess we need you to do a Manual Roll about 30 degrees left.
Okay.
And, in regard to the urine dump coming up, the doctors think they see a correlation between the urine dump times and the dump port temperature. So, just to see if this really works, and if it does work, we may be able to get rid of all of this recording stuff. We'd like for you to identify which bags you are dumping and give us a mark at start and the end of the dump.
Run that by one more time, please?
Looks like you guys don't understand the problem, do you? I can't believe that. We all dumped the urine into the same bag.
Okay, give us a start and stop.
We been stowing - yeah, but, Hank, we're all dumping into the same big white bag and then that gets dumped over to the side. Is that what you want? A total volume from all three of us?
Did you get my last, Henry?
Roger. They still would like to know the start and stop times.
(Laughter) Be our guest.
What do you - start and stop of what? You know, we let this thing purge, line out, and then we let it sit there until we're sure everything's all cleaned out - afterwards, to make sure we don't plug things up. I guess we can tell you when we do each step, but we don't really know when those bags are empty.
Well, that would be my guess, also, but can you guess at it? Okay, if you can't, forget it.
Okay.
Okay, Henry. Here's what we've been doing with the urine.
Is this attitude okay for you, Hank?
Roger.
John, could you repeat what you said. INCO cut the antenna off about the time you started?
Houston, is this attitude okay for the High Gain?
That's affirmative. It's a good attitude.
Okay, now. Let me tell you what we've been doing with this stuff. We've been using the Gemini [?] bags and then dumping it into a big white bag. And it's all in there now, all mixed together, and nobody knows whose is whom's. And - and, furthermore, we don't know when we dump that big white bag when - We know when we start to do it, but we don't know whenever it finishes. Because you can't see the inside of the bag. You just don't have a feel for that. So, what you just do is you just let it run until you think you ought to quit and look and see if you've got particles on the outside. And even after you quit, there's still particles on the outside.
Roger. Copy, John. Why don't we forget about that?
Okay. I would be glad to do it, if I thought it would give you any data. But I can't see how it'll give you anything you could use.
Okay, John. What we're trying to do is find some way to make the procedures a little cleaner on - on Apollo 17. So they think they can get some useful data out of this, and if you can just give us a mark when you start, maybe they, from the temperature curves, can tell just about when it ends. They got a - they're trying to get a calibration on how the temperature of the port changes during the dump.
Yeah, but - are you sure that, for example, that we don't have at least thousands of chamber dumps that'll tell you the same thing?
Okay. They said the chamber data is what got them looking at the possibility of doing this.
Okay, Hank, I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll give you mark when we start and a mark when we stop.
Thank you.
Purge line heater, Houston - on, Houston.
Roger; copy.
16, Houston. When you get ready to dump the waste water, we'd like to dump to 49 percent. That'll leave us enough for the Skylab contamination.
Okay, dump to 49 percent.
16, Houston. We can go ahead and start spinning up, but first we've got to load the Verb 49 with a current roll attitude and Pro going to attitude and then start the spinup. And for the spinup, we'd like to use Delta 2 in addition to the jets you now have configured so we can get a couple of spinups, and then turn Delta 2 back off.
Okay, we add Delta 2 for the start and then turn it off.
That's affirmative.
Ken, I guess you've figured out the reason we got caught there is we can't load the Noun 79 in Option 2.
Yeah, I just figured that out, Hank. Is what I did there to fix it okay?
Okay, you restarted it after going to Accel Command, is that right?
Yeah, I restarted it, then didn't mean to stop it, just kind of kept it going. Is that attitude looking all right or - I don't have any way of reading out where the dead band is centered now. Would you like for me to just stop and start all over again?
Okay, we'll take a look at it.
Okay, the - the center's only about a half a degree off from where we wanted it. So that's good.
Okay; thank you, Hank.
When's that old exercise period start?
I think next hour.
Yeah. Hardly wait to get a hold of that Exer-Genie; I'm gonna tear it to pieces.
Must be getting near the Earth; my sinuses are starting to bother me again.
How about let's do some water dumps.
Hey, yeah. Can we do that now?
(Garble) It says we can purge the oxygen from the fuel cell, urine dump, waste water dump ...
Okay, what you want to set on here? It's reading 65 now. We're supposed to purge to what, 49?
Forty-nine. So that's only 15 percent.
Fifteen percent at 5 minutes?
Five percent a minute.
Three minutes? You want to put 3 minutes - I'll put 2½ on there.
Yeah.
Is it running? Times 10?
I think you need to - All righty.
Okay.
And open her up.
Okay, that's under way.
Here, let me put your - your little bag in there.
Okay. Thank you. And let's see. I'll get a little oxygen purge going here.
What time does the urine dump start?
Oh, flowing right now.
Let's wait until - let's do these things one at a time. They're gonna try to get something out of that. Let's at least give them a halfway chance.
I don't want to give them a halfway chance. I don't think they deserve it, Ken. You're just being overly nice to them. You want to look out the window and see if you can do it, or -
Okay. Just a second, I'll - Sure will. Okay, I got the first oxygen under way.
It's - it's raining!
Man, is it ever raining.
Man, is it ever. We'll leave the window open; that'll be a clue something's going on out there.
(Singing) It's raining, it's pouring. Well, I need some music to dump urine by.
Music to dump by; I was just gonna suggest that.
What kind of music is fitting, though?
You might try the -
Oh, heck, I think it got knocked out on the - It did. That battery!
Where do they keep those?
They go in a little bag. We finished that one, anyhow. They go in a little bag up here. I think they're in that far side with the little bitty Bull Durham sack.
In here?
Yeah, I think so. The little drawstring in the top?
Yep. Are these the new ones or the old ones? There you go.
I think we need another two minutes.
The old ones have been thrown away, so we won't get them confused. Another 2 minutes to dump, right?
Yeah.
Going down to 60 percent now. Only supposed to go to 49, didn't you say?
Yeah. What kind of music is a good music to dump by?
(Singing) Music to dump by - How's your oxygen purge going?
It's about time for the first one to come off.
Okay.
Put the second one on.
Put the second one on. That's oxygen, right?
Right. Okay.
It's on.
Okay.
Think this is - (garble) popular music sandwiched on the end (garble) where it is.
If they'd have had the same problems we had on Apollo 8 - Borman was going out of his mind - he'd have shot himself.
I don't really blame him.
16, Houston. We show you 55 percent on the waste tank. I'll give you a call at 50.
We're watching it, Henry.
Okay.
That ain't good enough from past experience, is what you're saying?
I'm not saying that at all, John; just thought I would help if I could.
Okay. You are, Hank. I'm just teasing.
Looks like 49 to me.
Okay, turn it off.
Looks like 49 to us.
Go; don't talk about it.
Roger. We show about 50, now.
I can't find the switch.
Mark; 50 percent.
Got it? John?
Okay, she's shut down.
Got that (Garble).
No, not yet. It's only one minute. Okay, there's two minutes. Off.
Okay.
Number 3. Go.
(Garble).
That's really a beautiful sight, though.
It really is.
You know what that reminds me of? You know these things that people have (garble) these little desk things and all with the - the fluid and a whole bunch of ...
Looks to me like ...
...particles in it that looks like snow, and, you can turn it over and it stirs it all up? That's just what that looks like to me.
Looks to me like snowing at night in bright light.
Yeah. It's really beautiful. I hope those - those stereo pictures might show that. I hope so. I really want to do that part of the experiment right today, because I think that would be a beautiful picture to show. I guess we can get on with the urine dump.
I'll get out of (garble) I got it.
Why don't you dump my little bag first? You need a mark on that?
What do you want to do, Ken, first?
Dump my little bag first.
Hank, we're gonna start, and we're gonna give you something in a little bag first, and I'll give a mark when we start it and when we stop it and when I see particles start to slow down, and then we'll go emptying the bigger bag.
Roger; copy.
Okay, stand by.
Mark. It's started.
Okay, the bag's empty and I don't see anything out the side, yet. It's started out the side, now. Okay, we're leaving the bag on purge.
Roger.
Okay, the particles are starting to slow down, but they spurt every now and then. Man, there's a big blast.
Ken, do you have an estimate of the quantity in the little bag?
No, there's no way to get that (laughter).
You're supposed to give us that.
That's what you're doing. You're supposed to tell us that (laughter).
It's whatever 5 psi does through a 1/20,000 hole that's modified by ice.
Roger (laughter).
Okay, we've got the bag off. We're getting ready to start another one, and most of the particles have stopped.
Okay, we're running another bag.
Okay, that bag's empty.
Roger.
There's another bag started.
Roger.
That one is empty -
Mark.
Okay, we're starting on our big bag.
Roger.
And it's dumping now.
Okay.
Well, it looks like our big bag is empty somewhere in here.
Roger. Copy, Ken.
You know, Houston, we think one of the problems you're gonna have with this kind of a - a measuring thing is how - how clogged up your filters are. Like we don't think it's dumping as much right now as it was when it started because we think the filter's getting clogged.
That's a good point, John.
...(garble) these circuit breakers (garble) ...
We also see that if we're gonna do sequential dumping, we're gonna have to wait between the dumps, you know, to allow the nozzle - the temperature to stabilize.
That's affirmative.
(Garble) switch to off, then (Garble).
We're gonna turn the dump valve off and change filters.
Roger.
Okay, back to dump.
Going back to dump.
It's at 50 now.
Yeah, it doesn't seem to be making much difference, Charlie. In fact, that's good to hear. When you went back to dump, it - it got pretty good.
Yeah, but it's not dumping like it was officially, you know, that big range.
Yeah, well, that's a function of Sun angle.
Okay. Maybe that's it. The error - that's a function of Sun angle on the (garble) Okay. We'll buy that. You know, I was surprised how little stuff there was on that urine bottle, when I was out there .'
Oh, yeah. We took pictures of it.
No, it was up in (garble) ...
(Garble) another bag (Garble).
Okay, we started on another bag.
Bag's empty.
Oh, hey, there's one that'll look good, the dark shadow. You can see a lot more.
Yeah, you can see a lot.
We're still losing (garble) ...
Bag's empty.
Bag's empty.
Maybe that's what we should have done before the EVA, Charlie, was to have a big water dump, so it wouldn't have looked so black.
(Laughter) Well, I'll put a little water in your (garble) (laughter).
If the headshrinks would like to listen to that, that way we wouldn't be scared.
That's right (laughter). I'm proud to hear you guys were a little nervous about something around here. I thought y'all were completely fearless there for a while.
I've had more high heart rates in the last two weeks than I have in my whole life.
Pretty exciting business.
The thing that galls me about these shrinks and everybody else is - just like the way they tackle zero g in the body. Instead of fighting the thing and trying to make you live in a protected environment, you ought to learn to live in the environment you're in.
Yeah.
Let man adapt to zero g. Quit trying to force his body to stay in one-g condition, because it isn't gonna work.
But if you provide him with one g, it ain't gonna work. I've been trying to tell them that. I told them, listen, if you want a guy to stay healthy in zero g that can - so he can hack it when he gets back, you gotta give him that one-g feel.
Right. And there's no future in that. That negates all the reasons for going into zero g.
Well, and there's - you know - there's places on a spacecraft you could make it on, where you could put a - you could - you could put some (garble) ...
Yeah, but it's not productive. You'd have to spend 6 hours, 8 hours a day doing that.
You'd have to spend a lot of time in your zero ...
Well, just - just getting adapted to one g. (Laughter) You know, who - who needs it? I bet you the old bod is gonna taper off here and settle down and be just happy as a clam. So all it means is when you come home, you're gonna be kind of like a vegetable for a while, if it gets real bad.
Yeah.
And you just learn to live with that. The only place I see a hazard is in recovery. If you had to really exert yourself ...
Then that's really what we'd do, you watch.
I think I'd find a way to do that (laughter).
You watch. You may have the opportunity tomorrow or the next day.
That's right.
Yeah, recovery is just a different environment. We do have not much of it.
What do you mean, John?
I mean, once you get in the ship, you're in danger of sinking. (Laughter) That's what I mean, Charlie.
You're what? You're in danger of sinking? Oh. I tell you, I ...
You don't have to worry about space, but you've got to worry about swimming.
Yeah, I - I ain't so impressed with - I ain't going to be breathing easy until my fanny is on that ship.
I ain't either. I never have been impressed by the way those guys pick you out of the water.
Well, I - I'll actually feel pretty good when they get a collar around this boat.
Yeah, me too.
Until they get a collar around this thing, I ain't going to be very comfortable, because my experiences with the Stable II egress from this son of a gun have always been bad (laughter).
Yeah.
That's so pretty. That's just beautiful. Somebody would think you're nuts if you said there's nothing prettier than urine dumps. (Laughter)
They're going to wonder why we have a million pictures of those (garble) just fabulous.
The problem is, people have been setting focuses wrong, for one thing. What - what is the proper intensity to set this thing? I think these particles are real bright.
They are.
You keep a focus setting very close.
Yeah.
I wonder if - No, our TV just doesn't have the resolution to show that kind of stuff. It's a shame.
Do we have another eat period before TV?
Yeah.
About time for me to dump my bag down there?
Oh, yeah; just a minute.
I don't want to ask you to do that, because it - because it's kind of Rube Goldberg.
Dumping water?
Yeah. Let's turn the heaters off, okay?
I don't want the - You want me to turn them off now, right?
Yeah.
Okay.
Now you can stop and do the hydrogen purge.
You mean really stop, and ...
(Garble) stop (garble) nominal. (Laughter) Okay.
Where's the Exer-Genie?
It's in my TSB.
Is it still, huh?
Yeah. I used it several times when I was solo. Finally worked out a pretty good routine. But I have absolutely no confidence (laughter) in those guys, because they'll let you do anything ...
ISS light.
Could you cut - No. Okay. Okay.
Temporary ISS?
Right.
37777.
CDU failed.
Okay.
Okay, Houston, we got an ISS light and a 37777.
Roger, understand. Stand by.
Okay, the eight ball didn't move. That's the ICDU ("a CDU" in CM transcript) fail light is what it is.
Okay, just stand by. We're looking at it.
82, that's good. 130, that's good (garble) Okay, Noun 20s all look pretty good.
Okay, the Noun 20s all look pretty good ...
...a ...
Yeah, ...is okay.
See if you hit that switch button accidentally.
It's there.
Okay, no switches were being touched at the time.
Must have been a glitch, huh? One of the glitches?
I'm glad it wasn't the middle gimbal, for a change.
What gimbal was it?
You can't tell.
Are we in att hold?
I am now.
Okay, John. We saw the same thing you did and everything looks good; we're talking it over now.
Gonna reset ...
Want me to repeat that program alarm?
Okay, program alarm reset.
Roger.
(Laughter) Oh.
ICDU ("A CDU"?) fail(ed?) transient, huh?
Well, let's not outguess it. We did that once, maybe. Maybe all our flap was for naught. Maybe we ought to (garble) (Laughter) The nice thing about this, John, is that with the CDUs out, we can still do a perfectly good entry.
Apollo 16, Houston. We'd like for you to go through mal procedure G&N, Number 6 on page 28.
You'll have to gimbal.
That's right.
With what?
G&N controlled entry.
You can?
Okay, stand by.
I sure can.
Good.
He can do it with G&N controls.
How do you do that?
CDUs only talk to the computer.
Yeah.
They don't talk to the eight ball. And it - it thinks inertially. The platform just sits there and it does its thing, and it takes those accelerometers and integrates them and says, man, you need to go a little long. And if you needed to go long, you ought to have 112 degrees bank, and we just roll 112 and we'll plop it right in the same place the computer ...
You'd have to adapt it.
Yeah. But it's got the same accuracy that the G&N has.
We already found that out, didn't we?
I hate to tell you, but that brought on a "Shhh."
(Laughter)
We'd better hurry. We got to give a TV show in ...
(Laughter)
...in 3 hours.
Three hours?
Yeah, thanks.
Do you want to dump your stuff down here, Ken?
Yeah, I guess.
Or do you want me to do it?
Let me stop and take a second look. That sure got my attention. I thought John was playing games ...
I turned around and looked at that, and I saw the PGNS light and the ISS light on down there.
Well, at this point, I feel pretty comfortable even without the PGNS. Because ain't nobody going to No-Go entry.
That's for sure.
At least not up my watch.
I'd sure like - like to have that guidance working, though.
Well, got to have a little stick time.
It's a mighty big ocean.
(Laughter) I would like for it to come in automatically, too, Charlie; don't worry. My desire to be a hero does not mean I want to fly manually, just to prove you can do it.
Now, Ken, you can do it. And I want you to prove it. (Laughter)
We will - if we need to, we will put it down right there, but I'd just as soon go automatic. I believe in computers.
Yeah, I believe in computers, too.
That - that warning light was like going in the gym, Ken. (Laughter) Automatic constipation reliever (laughter).
Man, I'll tell you, the way I've been - the way I've been having to go lately (laughter). I'm really getting worried; if I were in the gym now, I would never stop.
Are you going to dump that thing through a filter and everything, Ken?
No. I'm going to dump it through the little filter.
Okay.
I got to use the other end of that big filter ...
Close it.
...of the urine hose here.
Now promise me you're not going to clog up the urine tube. You ain't gonna promise me that, are you? (Laughter)
John?
Yeah?
This is the last dump anyway.
(Garble) ...
Have - have - ask him to hold on.
...(Garble).
Ask him to hold on and we'll be there. And the Mal Procedures are up there in the little (garble) box.
Okay. Stand by.
That - they're in that box that's so hard to get to, Charlie.
Yeah, I know.
That's normal. Gosh. Who turned the lights off? We got a burned out light in one of the pumps down here. Let's see, scissors. Hold that for a second.
Can you reach it?
What could that be about?
Could what be about? The first thing I'd do is run a P52 and see if it knows where it is.
No, it's a - The REFSMMAT flag is still set.
We can check all those ...
The angles are good; it's got to know where it is, doesn't it? Better just keep your eye on that flag ...
Yeah, you - you could ...
...auto - auto transient wouldn't kill the REFSMMAT flag, would it?
Why don't we just go through this procedure and see what it says.
Okay.
Let me take care of all those things in an orderly, thought-out fashion.
Yeah, okay. Why don't I just move over here, and...
How's the dump looking?
Still dumping.
Man, on the - Look at that I Look at that!
You're dumping like crazy.
It worked.
There it goes again.
Okay, we're in SCS mode. It doesn't matter.
Watch it. Okay, we just had the program alarm again.
(Garble) first and two.
Here you go, Ken.
(Garble).
Here you go, John.
Okay, I'll get it in a second. I got that purge ...
Again?
Yeah.
Drive us crazy.
Well, if it's a bit failure, we can avoid that by going around it. Let me get in there and work on that thing for a moment.
Okay, I'm turning this thing off and it's not - the hose isn't hooked up to anything, Charlie.
What - what - what - what G&N? Number 6, is that the one that ...
Yeah. That's the one. Why don't you let me in there ?
Why don't you let me slide in there, Charlie?
Oh, excuse me.
No, you're okay.
Reach it?
Yeah. Hey, John?
Yeah?
They slide in there.
In here?
Yeah.
Okay. Okay, the program alarm resets. This is a nuisance.
Well, let's - We've got nothing else to do.
The answer is transient ISS condition.
Okay.
Program alarm reset.
Okay.
Spacecraft Control, SCS. And - Okay, then it says alarm code. No, the (garble) came off. It just came on again. Alarm code, ICDU to A/D check.
Did we get both the ISS and the program alarm?
Yeah.
I have P on the ...
Every - every time?
Every time to my - Yeah.
Okay, I did - I haven't seen the ISS light.
Well, I - it is on down there.
That's the PGNS light down there ...
No, there's an I ...
Oh, what's it look like?
...right there (garble) ...
I only saw the ...
...my ISS light wouldn't come on, and so ...
(Garble).
Every time?
Every time.
Okay.
I've been watching it, because it goes out ...
Does everybody ...
...which is why you ...
Okay, but it goes out.
I don't give a darn; I seen it.
All right, John. I'm not saying it didn't come on, I'm saying it goes out as soon as the condition goes away.
Okay. Well, it's been going out just like that, too.
Okay. So it means that - right there, you know that it's a - it's a hardware-caused thing and not a software. And let her do ...
Okay, (garble) again?
That's strange. Let's - let's do this thing, even if it only takes us to Block 5.
(Garble) get an answer.
Okay, Hank, when we go into number 6 procedure, we come down, and the logical answer out of Block 2 is that the - you can reset the program lights and the ISS light goes off all on its own. It's only on for a very short period of time. And that says that it's a transient condition and stops. I -- guess we could take a look at going down through the "No" path and try Block 6, but I'd like to have some concurrence on that before we do it.
We concur - like for you to go to block 6.
You had some bad comm there; I understand you want us to go to Block 6.
That is affirmative.
Okay.
Okay, let's do - let's do - why don't you do a Verb 16 Noun 23?
Y'all don't need the old LMP for that.
Okay. Before we started on that, we've decided to take a look at 16 20 and it seems to be counting in all three axes. And they agree with what's on the FDAI. We're gonna start into Block 40 now. And I'm going on the Vox so I can talk and read at the same time.
Roger, Ken. Before you do this, would you check yaw real carefully. We're showing about a degree difference between the ISS att and the ICDUs.
Say again, Hank. You - you were blocked out right in the middle.
Roger. Could you check the yaw axis real closely; we're showing about a degree difference down here. The other two axes look pretty good.
I - I repeat, the FDAI and the Noun 20s look like they're in as close agreement as I can read. You can't tell a degree on the FDAI down here anyway. (last sentence is Young in the CM transcript]
I mean, there's that much dispersion in the instrumentation. You know that. Idiots.
Roger.
There's that much dispersion in the instrumentation. You know that. Okay; can we proceed?
Okay, can we proceed?
Proceed.
Okay, we did. And it's counting again, and it's gone back to the same numbers - well, it just blanked again. Let's see here; maybe I was premature.
What happened there?
That's where it zeroed. Yeah, it's still showing about the same numbers, Hank. The biggest change was in the - no they're all - they're all ball park, within readability, from one reading to the other.
Roger.
Okay. So out of that, I come up with a "yes" answer, and I'm going - looking at block 12.
Want to load that?
I guess in order to do this block 12, I have to be in CMC Control, is that not correct?
Stand by. SCS should be okay, Ken.
Okay. I had no displacement; I did a Verb 43 Enter, and I loaded R-1, 2, and 3 - and I got no needle displacement. Is another Enter required or something?
Stand by.
Ken, we'd like for you to repeat the procedure, starting with the Verb 43, and do it very slowly so we can watch it down here.
Okay; there's Verb 43 - Enter, plus 00250 Enter, plus 00333 Enter, plus 00333 Enter, and the needles pulsed out and right back to zero.
Roger. Copy. The needles did jiggle, but they went back to zero.
That's correct.
(Garble) that.
16, Houston. Stand by a little bit, and we'll digest this a while.
What did he say?
Said stand by a little bit and they'll digest this.
Oh. Okay.
Let me ...
Well, the very first thing to do is to just find out if I have a good alignment. It could well be the detec - the detection circuit.
What - what angle are we, Ken?
180 roll, 40 degrees yaw, and 130 degrees in pitch.
You know, lots of times when those things happen, it depends on - you can just be in a certain attitude and it'll happen ...
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry - sorry you got to isolate that to a bit when it's ...
Yeah.
...giving you the problems, so you don't have - which one - which attitudes to avoid.
It's just like a sim (laughter); 24 hours out instead of 2 (garble) ...
Yeah, (garble) ...
Yeah, Trans-Lunar coast sim, Trans-Earth coast (laughter).
Well, I'd sure rather have these problems here than in lunar orbit.
Me, too.
You'd better believe it. Yeah, did we - would - would we still be in lunar orbit?
No, we'd be on the way home ...
No, we'd have been on the way home.
...but 48 hours away instead of -
I sure hope that that doesn't prove - You know, that's like McDivitt looking at that - what was it that happened there, and you could see he really made the right decision when he decided to delay the launch even though the information that made it the right decision occurred after he made his decision. (Laughter)
Yeah, I get a chuckle out of that.
Fortunately, he's - he's the kind of a guy that's (garble) used to kidding, though. Other people, I think, might believe that kind of reasoning.
I wonder what the good boss is going to go do? He must have a - I would think running - running ASPO would be enough of a - of a challenge to be worth staying around for. He must have an awfully good job offer.
Any good job offer would be better than that.
What? Running the program? Why do you say that?
His hair is gonna turn gray (Garble).
That's what makes it a challenge. (Laughter)
His ulcer is what makes it ...
That's going to be true in any job you go to. There's probably more talented people working in MSC, and working with NASA, than in any other organization, per capita, unless you get some little group like Bellcomm or something where - and they got their share of them. Strange.
(Heavy breathing) (garble) over there.
Hey, what have you got that thing set on?
(Garble) I'm talking ...
Apollo 16, Houston. The computer looks good to us, and we're checking now to make sure that there's nothing left out in mal procedures.
Okay. Would you like for me to try them in the - in CMC Control, and I'll go to Accel Command so we won't get any attitudes?
Okay, Ken; give it a go.
I'll read it up to you, Ken. Verb 43E, load R-1, plus 2 - plus 00250; in R-2, plus 00333 Enter. Whoa! Look at the eight ball.
As soon as you (laughter) Enter, the needles - they -
Same thing, Hank, as soon as I hit Enter, they pulse out, and it looks like they go to where they belong, and then as soon as it comes back, it just goes out and comes right back.
Roger. Copy.
Is that normal?
No.
You ever run it before?
Yes, sir.
Okay.
No, they should go out and stay until you zero them.
That's what I would think.
Yeah, I've run this procedure before. It's -
What is that an indication of, when it goes out?
Our digital-to-analog section has failed, and we can check that by seeing - Let's see - What - what uses the D-to-A's? The gimbals? The gimbal drive unit uses D-to-A's.
No, don't turn the (garble) gimbals on, Ken.
Well, John. The - the reason it's important to you is that this is the way you also coarse align the platform.
I don't want to coarse align the platform . ..
Got to get - got to get entry REFSMMAT.
Oh, I know.
Okay. But that's...
(Garble).
...that's something you got to start very, very early on.
I know that.
Why don't we do that?
Yeah, but only if you plan to do it.
Yeah, that's what I say ...
Yeah, I mean, that can also ...
...in order to finish this loop, we got - we got to fine align the platform.
Yeah. Well, what I would like to do is to find out if we've lost that loop. Like right now, even if - even if the gimbals (garble), I'm not sure I would be willing to try to get the coarse align.
Yeah, but we've got 24 hours to find that out anyway.
Hey, John, the only other thing besides the coarse align loop that I can think of that - that uses the D-to-A section -
Yeah. That's what it says over there. Is that what you want ?
No, I don't. It didn't even mention TVC here, hut I'm sure ...
(Garble) D to A.
...that's how it works. Coarse align there. Can't do that. Can't do that, because it will affect the loads. Oh, wait. Yeah, we can try something like that.
Are you sure we want to stay in this (garble), Ken?
Beg your pardon?
Okay.
Sure I want to stay in what?
In CMC. Okay, it wasn't flying. It didn't before.
Yeah.
It's a transient condition now anyhow. Maybe it'll get un-transient later on.
Hank, looks like one other thing that would check the D-to-A's would be - how about if I load a - just a Noun 22 of all zeros, and then call up the Verb 62?
That would give you an attitude 202?
Yeah.
That (garble) what he said.
Ken, we'd like to have you just stand by, just a minute, here, and - while we smoke this over.
Okay.
You say it looks like D-to-A is working there, Ken? Or is it gone completely?
I don't know.
Nobody knows.
I can't tell.
Charlie, (garble) ...
I can't think of how a D-to-A could have caused that red alarm the way it came up.
Yeah.
If it's in zero gravity, some kind of mechanical bit in there - something could be bouncing up against it, hit it, and then go back ...
If it doesn't get it again.
I'm more inclined to believe that we had a transient warning in the - in the warning circuit.
Three of them?
Yeah.
I don't believe that.
What's the difference if three - Whatever causes transients anywhere...
Yeah, (garble) ...
...why is it most likely in one circuit than another?
It's not; I didn't mean that.
You were just ...
I just ...Page
If you had one and it never reoccurred, I'd agree, but we already had one ...
No, it - it's a hardware thing that causes ...
Is this what - is this what you had before?
No. No.
You're probably thinking we got something different than what you had then.
Well, I'd be bored if I didn't.
I'm bored already, and I'm (garble) ...
Anybody got a Pentel or something?
...(garble) be back behind...
(Laughter) (garble) Why, you want to use it to write on, or ...
Yeah, I want to write on that I defecated at 200 and whatever it is.
Hey, Mabel, when you transcribe the tape, will you record that, please?
Yeah, I don't have a pencil, so will you tell the doc ...
Here. (Laughter) That's a heck of a note.
...what belongs to me. (Laughter)
Charlie?
Yeah? Slide her this way.
There you go.
Oh, I got it. Thanks. (Laughter)
I can't believe we ...
You keep losing it.
...the dingaling things we're doing on this mission. Oh.
Was Henry on the night when I got - got all my transients? I'm gonna have that guy fired.
Heart rate, about 80.
Here you go, Ken.
Yeah, but that was - that had nothing to do with the Exer-Genie.
(Laughter) The Exer-Genie was your pacifier.
Well, I believe you, Ken. If you say that you can make - you can make an entry without the G - G&N. The - the CMC looks good, though, huh?
Yeah, it looks good.
Good.
But I'll tell you, at 6gs, when that thing comes up with an ISS warning light, even if you're planning for it, it's going to cause your pittypat to titter or whatever it does. We're gonna see - try Gemini-ing this time.
Hank was on, with my gimbal that didn't work. Hank's on today. I don't think it was Hank that had the first night, though. That guy's gonna get fired. (Laughter)
Got up to 90.
I was in here exercising one day and the doc says, "All right, that's real good. You got your heart rate to 90." And I had just finished checking it, 72. (Laughter) Yeah, I wrote in the - I had just finished writing in the Flight Plan. I - I worked really hard, I thought, and I got it up to 72. And the doc says, "Hey, that's real good. You've - got a heart rate of 90." You ding dongs. That shows how crummy your gear is, anyhow. If he had 90 that day, he should have broken his cardiopack yesterday.
What happened yesterday?
Every time Charlie would say how black it was, I'd look out there and my pitty-pat would be all rpm and no torque.
Well, I guarantee you, it sure was black. (Laughter)
That other one wasn't so bad, was it, you guys?
That was one of your better ones, Charlie. (Laughter )
Why couldn't you do those during dinner instead of the others?
Well, I don't have ISS lights to get me excited (laughter). I been working on that all ...
(Garble) ISS light experience. Sure. We don't want you to ...
I been work - I been working on that all morning.
(Garble) warning light stuff; we can't afford it. (Laughter )
I ought to tell Hank. Never believe what Charlie did when the ISS warning light came on.
Had a 17-second void. Why don't you log that ...
Okay.
...along with it. Make it 18 seconds.
Okay. (Laughter) An 18 seconder.
Yeah.
And the GET is something like 265:39 [240:52].
You is logged.
Thanks. I can't believe it. It's worse than any sim.
We sure have had our share of sim problems.
(Garble) Good.
Are we in the exercise period now?
Yeah.
What do you think I'm doing, Charlie? I fell behind when he gets an ISS light.
(Laughter)
Does the - does the D-to-A thing look like it's working, Ken? Or does it still have to pass that test?
No. They - they don't want me to play and find out.
Oh.
That's right. You don't ...
I'm gonna play just like I did on that sim, though. I'm gonna give them some time and if they don't come up with an answer, I'm gonna go find out.
(Garble), you know.
They can complain all they want to. That's the day I ain't running a training course for G&C.
Quit hogging the exercise period, John.
Well, (Garble).
How much have we got?
We got another - Charlie's got to get his in there and I got to get in mine in there.
One more pull and I'll give it to you.
I was on - I was on about - I was working ten minutes on my arms, ten minutes on my legs, and then ten minutes back on my arms again, and I ...
Apollo 16, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. What we'd like to do, Ken, is call up Verb 48. And on Noun 46, set the first digit, digit A, to 0 to kill the DAP; do a Verb 46 Enter; and then we want to go back to block 12 and start with a Verb 43. The boys in the backroom here think that the procedure won't work if the DAP is running even though we're in SCS.
Who's got my pencil?
Okay. I have done this in the simulator, and it didn't work there, but we'll try this in just ...Okay. You want to set the - you to kill the DAP as number 1 step.
That's affirmative.
Okay, then you want to go back and go through Step 12.
That's affirmative, Ken.
Over here, where the (garble) is.
Okay, and then you want to go back and go through step 12.
Okay. That's in work.
have 11101, 01111, okay. Zero. That's good. Just - Just hit 1s.
Pro?
Pro.
Pro. Pro.
Okay. I have to do a Verb 46 on this now. That was one of the no-no's we had the other night. Is that okay?
That's okay now. That was just to protect the EMP.
Okay, just during the EMP. Thank you
Okay. And now that's working like a champ.
There it goes.
Yeah, it works just like it's supposed to, now.
Roger. Somebody just got the same results over in the CMS, I understand.
Okay. Very good.
I've done this thing in the CMS and I had the DAP on. There must be some other special condition where that.
That says that D-to-A ain't it.
Yeah. You can see, this - this ain't at all conclusive because this is all ...
Okay.
...based on - this is all based on assumption up here, that you - that you couldn't get the lights off. We really had a transient condition.
I know we did.
So anything we find down here is only suggestive ...
Okay. Okay, it's suggestive, but in the - in the final analysis ...
Ken, we'd like for you to activate the DAP again on a Verb 48, and 1 in digit A, and then a Verb 46.
In the final analysis what, John?
You can't tell visually whether the FDAI is - is reading and all that - you can't tell - you can't tell this right here by eyeball. You'd have to run - you'd have to run a P52 to tell that.
That's right. I agree with you.
Hank, we'd like to - I'd like to run a P52 here and see - see what kind of torquing angles we get. That would tell us whether or not we really had any kind of - of a hang-up in the A to D section. As short as it was, we couldn't have gotten very far off in attitude.
Roger. We don't think it moved.
Say again. We were in PTC at the time, so there was bound to be some rates going at the time.
16, Houston. Our SIM bay's gonna get too cold, if we don't change attitudes. We'd like for you to roll to 280 degrees and then do the P52.
Okay. I'll roll to 280.
I'll do a ...
The first thing you got to do is (garble).
They're close.
You through with your exerciser, John?
Yeah, here.
Okay, 280 is over here.
I got it.
Charlie, you're so strong.
Who's giving the big sighs? You guys are huffing and puffing like it's on ...
I just started.
What are you supposed to do? You're supposed to put it on ...
What - what did you set it on, though?
I don't know. Whatever it took.
(Laughter)
Well, (garble) ...
Is it up all the way?
Well, I don't have no idea.
Well, Charlie, if that's the thing that you were going to do ...
How do you do it?
Well, I did it like that, but I've never done it like you're doing it.
How'd you do it?
(Garble) both.
I don't think it matters.
Not if you don't care anymore.
(Heavy breathing)
Like if it was one of those 0.15-degree things. That's the only way you gonna tell, is do a ...
52.
...(garble) I - I forget how that thing is. I forget what the bits are in the CDUs, but they're like ...
Plus 4 point ...
...22½ sticks in my mind, or 11¼, or plus 5¾. We sure didn't have 11¼ when we were ...
Well, almost. The only one you could tell with the naked eye (garble) degree.
(Heavy breathing) (garble) degrees in here.
Yeah, (garble) if you can believe what kind of eight ball you got here.
(Garble) ...
The spec value on the eight ball is (garble) ...
Well, shoot, just 1.
...210.
One and one-half?
Yeah.
(Garble) specs.
We're doing a lot better than specs, aren't we?
Yeah.
We think it's - I've been watching it, and it's just isn't off more than a degree.
Yeah, that's one thing that hacked me about this whole business. Here we are flying a platform that's accurate to a hundredth of a degree, and we don't have a display to where we can tell it. You know?
You need a vernier.
You need - you need - you need fine displays if you're gonna fly something like this, and tell us beforehand.
Yep.
Same way we shut down the Saturn.
(Garble).
(Garble) could make it (garble) display where you could manually shut the mother off (garble). Just put it on the - in there - little line knocked off, and say shut down. They chew your tail off if you say anything.
Oh, yeah. Put it in there with - The thing was, when they built those things, they didn't have those kind of uses in mind.
No, they had some stupid use in mind. You can bet on that (garble).
Hey! (Laughter)
It's working, but we got to check it out. It comes up very shortly, I understand. Sometime today.
Yeah. Let's see what -
What comes up very shortly? Check what out?
Houston, we just wanted you to know that the heart rates that you're seeing or not seeing are due to the exercise period - not the ISS light.
Roger. We copy.
Although, that could be a factor.
The Surgeon, I think, had come to the conclusion you must be exercising.
He just doesn't know what an ISS light will do to a body.
(Laughter)
My PRD is floating.
That's mine.
(Garble) want to defecate. Go down there.
Yeah, if there's one kind of malfunction that I really don't like, it's these transient things. They keep you all keyed up -
(Garble) come on all day, you know? (garble) never see them again.
Yeah, I know. That's what worries you most. That's that engine that burps then runs.
Whew!
Sweating, Charlie?
Starting to get hot.
Yeah, I start sweating; that's my problem. Had to quit because I ain't - we ain't got any room to sweat in here.
John, the Surgeon says your heart rate hit a peak of 114 during the exercise period.
I've timed it myself, I only got up to 100. Better check his gear.
Roger. (Laughter)
Your gear is a cardboard - probably a cardboard table with little tick marks in it. I can't believe, on that last LBNP test that they ran on our last physical, I ended up with a 30 - 38 heart rate laying on this table.
Thirty-eight? Mine's never been - I think 48 was the lowest I've ever been.
Bet I ain't been that low on this flight. I always thought it was probably ...
I bet you that - I bet you when you were sleeping, it was that low.
I wonder. Man, I tell you, every time I turn around I - I'm paying attention to - little battery compartment that reads 2.8.
It does?
Yeah. No, I'm sorry. 2.6. Excuse me.
It's all my fault.
I don't think they got that psyched out, really.
They think that they do. You got to be careful of that one because that's the one that - We return that gear, and their analysis is subject to checking.
(Laughter) You know, you'd be wrong about the gimbal motors (garble).
Right. They'll have a very positive report about the gimbal motors. (Laughter)
Yeah. There's always three answers to every question. One one guy knows, the one the other guy knows, and the one that's right.
Charlie ...
Why don't you whip off a 52, there, John?
You want me to do it?
Sure.
If anybody can do it, I can.
Ken, our Pitch has got off a little bit. We need about a 120 degrees in Pitch also.
Is that for thermal reasons, Hank?
That's affirmative.
You weenie. I don't believe that.
Well, they got - I think I got data. I don't know that their thermal rationale is right.
Okay, now it'll be a second here before I get to that attitude.
Hey, you got you some stick time, Ken? (garble) Charlie.
He'd be lucky if he can see anything through that telescope. I don't know. The Sun's at our back, so maybe he can.
Ken, you want to keep an eye on your roll?
Well, how about telling me what attitude you precisely would like.
280, 120, and 040.
Okay. I can do that.
Yeah, I see stars. Why don't you close up the - can you close up the (garble), you guys?
Yeah, I'll close up the hatch for you. I can't believe the difference in 280 and 284 means a hill of beans - in this big marshmallow.
Well, I could see stars there for a while.
Okay.
Okay. Say when, Ken.
If you can take you some shots, well - let me use the DSKY here. It's a better reference. I'll probably go ahead and do it and then I'll probably get a better hack on the attitude here.
We got two stars out there and I don't know what they could be.
Probably Alpha and Beta Centauri.
(Garble) probably right. Is that where we're pointed now (garble)?
Yeah.
That's what they are (garble).
You don't have Atria next to it?
No, I can't see it. Ken, let me do it. Okay?
No, wait a minute, John. I - we'll use the DSKY.
Okay, now I got all kind of stars up here. There's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. I don't know what any of them are.
(Garble).
Say when, Ken.
I'll give you the program (garble), John.
He really didn't mean to just fly over to 280 roll.
He really didn't mean to do that?
No. He meant go to a specific attitude. He just didn't bother to say what it was.
I thought he gave you 120.
Yeah, after I asked for it. I could have gone there the first time just as easy.
Oh, yeah.
(Sneeze) Excuse me. (Sneeze).
(Garble) and Beta Centauri?
It is?
Yeah, (Garble).
You can get Menkent (garble) All right. Now we're going to throw ourselves to attitude rate Att Rate 2, Limit Cycle, On.
(Garble) sort of oriented ...
(Garble) power must be on.
Are we - are we oriented up north?
Towards the south.
Towards the south.
Okay, the first one is star 21.
Star 21. Gonna have to go to Zero Optics, Ken.
Yep.
Zero to Off (garble).
You'll have to turn the Optics power on before you're going to get anything.
Okay.
Turn the Optics power on first.
Yeah; power on.
Okay; now Zero the Optics.
They're Zeroed.
You did it after the Optics power was turned on?
No, before.
No, you got to do it after. Because that's the only way the computer gets its discrete.
You go to Off and then back to Zero, right?
Yeah. After the power's on. You have an SCS; you can go to Manual when the drive is finished. Whenever you feel like it, as a matter of fact.
If I go to Off, that program light hasn't been on...
Huh?
That program light?
What about it?
(Garble) was on. Do I go back to Zero (Garble).
No, no - as long as you've been in there 15 seconds. And we'll just check it here.
Okay, that's close enough.
Okay, it's your computer.
Twenty-one.
Want me to do - try one?
Yes, sir.
Twenty-one -
Mark, 21 is now marked. Okay, now I know where I'm at. Yeah, we're down to about - Okay, fine.
(Laughter) I told you we were pointing south.
I know you told me that, but I didn't see any stars out there.
There you go. CMC. Spica.
Phew! Boy, it's really getting bad, Ken.
It's right in the ...
Okay, Houston; there are the angles. It does look like that middle gimbal is - might be a little large, but it's - it was late last night when we had the last alignment, so that may be - that may be nominal.
Roger. We agree it has been quite a few hours since the last P52.
Clear the torque, Ken.
