Hello, Houston. Houston, Apollo 13. Over.
Good morning, 13. This is Houston. How are you?
Read you loud and clear. We had a fairly good night's sleep.
Okay. Real fine. At your leisure, you can give us radiation reports, I guess. And, we're getting a consumables update together for you, and a few other little details whenever you're ready to talk. About the only major thing on the spacecraft is that it's been getting farther away.
Okay. Well, that's to be expected, I guess.
Yeah.
And we're starting to charge battery A, Houston.
Rog on battery A, Fred. EECOM says battery B looks real good.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Houston, 13.
Go ahead.
Okay. For information, Fred was on comm last night; and he was over in the left-hand seat, and if you want our radiation readings, we just goofed. We left them all in the suits which are now nicely tucked away. We're going to get out Jack's suit in an hour or so anyway, and we'll get his dosimeter out if you wanted to get the reading on that one.
Okay, Jim. That'll be satisfactory.
Okay.
And in exchange for that, the Surgeon would like to have a rough number of hours each of you slept and a qualitative verb to describe whether it was good, fair, or poor.
Okay. Stand by. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston. We had an average of around 5½ hours [garble]. [Long pause.]
Jim, Houston. Your comm got pretty garbled there just as you started to talk. [Long pause.]
Okay. Houston, Apollo 13.
Okay, 13. You're loud and clear again.
We averaged about 5½ hours sleep apiece, and we're estimating that the sleep was good.
Okay. Copy that. [Pause.] Let's see what else we got for you, Jim. Midcourse-2 looks like about 23 feet per second [7 m/s], approximately retrograde and on time. And it's holding real firm there. For your information, and you don't need to copy this down, because it's still pretty soft, but we have an S-IVB impact of about 8.57 south and about 33.9 west, which is a little west and a little south of the Flight Plan value. We have it at a GET of about 77 plus 51 which is just before AOS, and the LOI paths are a little bit late, and as I say, it's still pretty soft, and we'll be updating you with firm numbers.
That's fine, Joe. Just as long as it doesn't hit Cone Crater.
Okay. And I'll have a consumables update for you in a little while, and I have a small Flight Plan update for you sometime a little later on when you're ready to copy. There's no big deals in it.
Roger.
And, 13, Houston. We'd like to verify that you cycled the O2 cryo fans. We saw the H2, but we didn't see the O2 get stirred up.
Yeah, Joe. We did and - kind of looked like we might have had a little stratification because right after we put them on, we had a Cryo Press light.
Okay. EECOM told me that might happen, and he was right.
Okay, Joe. We're ready to copy a Flight Plan update and your consumables.
Okay, Jack. [Pause.] The Flight Plan update has a couple of items in it, and the first one we'd like to do is to update the Tephem values in the G&C checklist on page G/9-2. These are fairly small changes, but in case you need them, we'd like you to have the exact numbers. Over.
Okay. Just a minute. I'll get it out. [Long pause.]
Joe, was that the G&C checklist, page 9-2?
That's affirmative. G&C, page G/9-2.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. On that page in line 04, column B, change the number from 03366 to 05253. Over.
[Garble] 53.
Okay. And in line 05, column B, change from 11000 to 33661. Over.
33661.
Okay. That's right. The only other thing I've got for you, Jack, is three additional questions for the booster systems debriefing, which is to take place at about 25 hours, and we thought we'd pass these questions up to you early so you can consider them. Over.
Okay. We're ready to copy.
Okay. The first extra is, and let me get the original question because this question says, "More specifically on item 2," and item 2 says, "Were there any significant changes in the noise vibration level during the single stage of powered flight? Specifically, describe your observations during the early S-II center engine cut-off, and approximately 90 seconds prior to TLI cut-off, you reported a high vibration in the S-IVB. We'd like you to describe the build-up of this vibration and its behavior through cut-off." Over.
Okay. Essentially, what you'd like us to talk about is vibration sequence during the early S-II cut-off of the center engine and also describe the vibrations that we encountered during the S-IVB TLI burn. Is that correct?
That's it. Okay. The second extra question is for you, Jim, and it says, "Comparing this flight with your ride on Apollo 8, were there any significant differences in the powered flight environment?"
Okay. We'll describe a comparison with 8 and 13 as far as powered flight goes.
Roger. And the last additional question is what did the ORDEAL ball look like during TLI? As you know, we passed you an update to that setting, and we'd like to know whether it was riding right on zero or what during the burn. Over.
Okay. Will do. Well we'll describe the ORDEAL ball.
Okay. That's it, and that's the whole Flight Plan update. I have a consumables update now if you want to listen to that.
Okay, Joe. We're ready to copy.
Okay. At 23 hours, the total RCS is 1121, quad A is 274, quad Bravo is 286, quad Charlie is 274, quad Delta is 287; and the cryos are as follows: H2 tank 1, 83 percent; H2 tank 2, 86 percent; O2 tank 1, 87 percent; O2 tank 2, 87 percent. Over.
Okay, Joe. We got all those, and how do we compare them with where we should be in the timeline?
As I understand it, Jack, you're running slightly ahead of nominal in both those areas.
Okay; real fine.
No problems. [Long pause.]
And, 13, Houston. That's all the business I got right now. I have a little news plan of the day for you, if you feel like listening to that a little later on. [Long pause.]
Just hold off a little bit there, Joe, if you don't mind [garble].
Stand by one, Jim. You're coming in garbled again.
Houston, 13.
Okay, 13; Houston. Loud and clear again. Go ahead.
Okay. Joe. On the news, Jim would like to hold off a little bit on that, and I want to make a request to FAO, if he will at some time during the day, when we have a - get a Flight Plan update with those activities we agreed to make optional during lunar orbit and the few activities we were going to delete, I think that I forgot and left that card back during the press of suiting, I left it in the suit room.
Okay. Wilco.
Okay, Jack. I understand FAO's working on that and we'll have something for you later on.
Okay. We're not in any hurry.
Rog.
Okay, Houston; 13. [Pause.]
Okay. Jack. We copy the angles. You can go ahead and torque them. [Pause.]
Okay. Joe. The time of torqueing will be 23 hours, 47 minutes, 30 seconds.
We copy.
Houston, 13.
13, Houston. Go ahead.
For information, Joe, we're all configured back again now to our regular seating positions, if you're monitoring us.
Okay. Thank you, Jim.
Hello there, Houston; 13.
13, Houston. Go ahead.
Gosh, we had forgotten, but we'd like to hear what the news is.
Okay. There's not a whole lot to it. Well, let's see, we'll start with the - Let's start with sports, what the heck. The Astros survived 8 to 7, the Braves got five or six runs in the - five runs in the ninth inning, but they just - they just made it; and in the other important game of the day, the Cubs were rained out. I have all the rest of the scores, you can tell me if you want any of them. They had earthquakes in Manila and other areas of the island of Luzon. There were three tremors and they kept the buildings shaking for about a half an hour or so, and it was about a 5 on the Richter scale. Okay, let's see. The Beatles have announced they will no longer perform as a group. The quartet is reported to have made in excess of a half billion dollars during their short musical career. However, rumors that they will use this money to start their own space program are false.
Maybe we could borrow some.
[Laughter.] Okay. Okay; West German Chancellor Willy Brandt, who witnessed your launch from the Cape yesterday, and President Nixon will complete their round of talks today. Brandt reportedly came to the U.S. to seek assurance from the President to go ahead with talks with the eastern European nations, especially East Germany, Poland, and Russia. Many air traffic controllers are still out, but reports indicate that they are slowly returning to work, and you'll be happy to know that the controllers here in the MOCR are still on the job.
[Garble]
Go ahead.
I said thank goodness for that.
Okay. Some truck lines are being struck in the Midwest, and the school teachers have walked off the job in Minneapolis. Today's favorite pastime across the - Uh oh; have you guys completed your income tax?
How do I apply for an extension?
[Laughter.]
Yeah, Joe. I got to - hey, listen - It ain't too funny; things kind of happened real fast down there, and I do need an extension.
[Laughter.]
I didn't get mine filed. I'm really serious; would you...
You're breaking up the room down here.
...because I may be spending time in a...
We'll see...
I may be spending time in a - I may be spending time in another quarantine besides the one that they are planning for me.
We'll see what we can do, Jack. We'll get with Recovery and see if we can get the agent out there in the Pacific when you come back. By golly, let's see. In professional basketball, the Knicks beat the Milwaukee Bucks 110 to 102, and Billy Casper is leading the Masters after 54 holes with a 208, and spring football practice is in full swing. And that's about all the news we got; the updated plan of the day for you guys, the uniform will be service dress inflight coverall garments with swords and medals, and tonight's movie shown in the Lower Equipment Bay will be John Wayne, Lou Costello, and Shirley Temple in the 'The Flight of Apollo 13.' Over.
Outstanding. [Long pause.]
Houston, this is 13. Is it true that Jack's income tax return was going to be used to buy the ascent fuel for the LM?
Well, considering that he's a bachelor and hasn't got that deduction to take, yeah! [Pause.]
Hey, Joe. I'm glad you brought that up, because I was really serious about that.
Okay, Jack. We'll - We'll - we'll take care of it. Tom Stafford says he'll get an extension for you.
Okay. [Pause.]
And Jim McDivitt says, "Yeah, now that you mention it, he forgot to fill the ascent stage."
[Laughter.] Suspicions confirmed.
Should give you very good performance on descent.
We should have a lot more hover time, huh?
That's right. [Pause.]
Okay, crew. About the only other thing I've got for you right now is an update to your P37 PAD for Lift-off plus 35. This is a change to the PAD we gave you yesterday. The reason for the update is for weather avoidance in the mid-Pacific landing area at 70 hours, which is the return time for this PAD, and in case the question arises in your mind, we don't expect any problem there for the end of the mission. The weather area is 20 degrees south of your end-of-mission landing point, and it appears to be moving to the south.
Okay, Joe. I'm ready to copy the PAD.
Okay. GET of ignition is 035:00; Delta-VT, 7883; Longitude, minus 155; and the GET 400K, 069:54. Over.
GETI is 035:00, 7883, minus 155, 069:54.
Okay. [Long pause.]
And, Houston, Jack's going to try donning his suit now for practice, himself, and when he gets it out, we'll give you a dosimeter reading.
Okay. Real good.
Houston, Apollo 13.
13, Houston. Go.
Okay. We've retrieved Jack's dosimeter, and it's reading 02022. [Pause.]
Okay. We copy 02022 on the dosimeter, Jim.
That's affirm. [Long pause.]
13, Houston. At your convenience, we'd like the LM/CM Delta-P reading.
That reading is 0.65 psi.
Copy 0.65. Thank you.
Apollo 13, Houston. Over.
Houston, Apollo 13. Roger. We're thinking together. And we're here waiting for your call.
Okay, you were a little broken up there, Jim, but I think it's getting better. We're ready for the launch vehicle systems debriefing whenever you are. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston; Apollo 13. You were cut out again; say again, please.
Roger, Jim. We're ready for the launch vehicle systems debriefing whenever you are. Over.
Okay. Stand by 1. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston; 13. In answer to question 1, the changes in the noise level occurred mainly between the first stage and the other stages - the other stages were about the same in noise level, very quiet, but the first stage, of course, was - made quite a bit of noise in the beginning but - which built up during the high Q, and then [garble] went quiet just after high Q.
Okay, copy that, Jim.
I might mention that the noise level during the first stage was not sufficient to be uncomfortable at all.
Roger. And I assume comm was okay.
That's affirm. Comm was very good all during - throughout the entire flight. Much better than I expected.
Okay.
Now, in answer to question 2, there was, of course, a vibration transient in the second stage that - due to the number 5 engine going out - which occurred shortly before the engine went out, and slightly after that then the S-II stage was very smooth. [Pause.]
Okay, Jim. I guess the significant point there is that you didn't notice the vibration before you saw the engine light.
That's right. We - we noticed the vibration but it wasn't such that we thought something catastrophic was going to happen; it just started vibration and then the EN light came on, and then the vibration went away and the stage itself was smooth.
Okay, copy that.
Yeah, and that - it was all pretty - pretty short in span - just a second or so before and like a second afterwards, Joe.
Oh. Roger.
And on the S-IVB, the vibration of the vehicle itself wasn't what [garble] second [garble] powered flight - a very high frequency vibration.
That was - was that during - just during TLI, or did you notice that at insertion? [Pause.]
Well, it was a high-frequency viola - vibration but more noticeable during the TLI burn than it was during the boost [garble] flight.
Okay, I - understand. [Long pause.]
I guess the S-IVB vibration during TLI was there all the time although it seemed to - to grow to us as the burn progressed, although that may have been just due to the boost weight decrease.
Okay, you called this about 3½ minutes, but I guess the thing was slowly building up throughout the whole burn. Right?
That's right.
Okay, was it uncomfortable or did it cause your vision to degrade or anything like that?
No, it - it was not uncomfortable at all but I was recalling the ride on 8, and the S-IVB was more - much more smooth than even it was on 13.
Copy that. [Long pause.]
Okay, now, in answer to number 3, we did not experience any unexpected transients except that all of us noticed the PU shift. We thought it was more pronounced than we had expected it to be.
Okay. Understand.
Joe, on that. I guess most of every time that PU shift occurred we all - almost all of us glanced at the engine light. We could feel definite acceleration change.
Rog. Understand, Jack.
And, during the high-Q portion of the flight, the Alpha meter, to my knowledge, never went above [garble].
Okay.
In answer to number 4, we got a pretty good look at the thermal shroud and the IU after taking the LM away, and from our viewpoint, the shroud was completely intact. I saw no loose particles or parts of it floating at all.
Okay, Jim. Understand. [Pause.]
And, I guess we answered number 5. I don't think at any time did we have any communication problem during powered flight.
Roger. [Long pause.]
In answer to number 6, the answer is essentially no. We saw no venting or suspected leak on the LM or the CSM.
Okay, Jim. I guess you described to us the nonpropulsive venting on the S-IVB after the APS maneuver and we copied that at the time. [Pause.]
Okay. Fred saw the S-IVB venting.
Yes, we had already talked about that, Joe. And that was also visible when it - of course, when it did its evasive maneuver when we were looking at it right close up.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, Joe. The last time we saw the S-IVB positively was when Fred saw it venting at about - at about 5 hours. We think we might have picked it up later on. We saw a particle or something out there that was tumbling which might have been the booster or one of the SLA panels.
And when was that, Jim? [Pause.]
We're - we're debating. It was somewhere between - say 7:30 and 9 hours.
Okay.
But, Joe, assuming the S-IVB is still stable. The object I was looking at was definitely tumbling.
Okay, Fred. As I recall, it was stable then, although it's tumbling now.
Okay. It probably was the SLA panel I picked up.
Right. Incidentally, I guess the guys in building 6...
Oh and I think we...
Go ahead, Jim.
I - I think we answered number 9. We - at around 5:32, I think, was when we think the number 5 light came on in the S-II, and a definite vibration which was more than just a high-frequency vibration we got with the normal S-IV burn, and then the light came on. I called ECO thinking from the training that it was 7:42 and looked up at the time and realized it was early. And then, soon after the light came on, the vibration stopped and the engine or the booster smoothed down. It was very smooth from there on. [Pause.]
Okay. This may be a stupid question, but do you have any idea of what the frequency of it was?
Only to say that it was much higher - I couldn't really guess now. It was rather a rapid longitudinal vibration. [Pause.]
Okay, Jim. Stand by now for a minute, we're going to switch omni.
Houston, 13, [garble]
13, Houston. I read you. We still have quite a bit of noise on the loop.
I'll stand by. Roger.
Okay, Jim. It should be pretty good now. We copied you answering question number 9.
Do you want any more comments on the S-IVB vibration?
I don't think so. When you get all done, I'll - I'll make a quick check to see if the booster people have any - any additional questions. You skipped number 8, Jim; could you go back to that for a second?
Okay, stand by. [Long pause.]
Our only comment there, Joe, was that the burn on TLI, to our knowledge, was about 3¾ second longer than had been predicted and that was the only thing that we really noticed; otherwise, looked like VI was nominal at cut-off.
Okay, understand. [Long pause.]
Okay, on comparing the flight of 13 to Apollo 8, lift-off was about the same amount of vibration as I noticed on 8, but at the beginning of the flight, there was less of the sideways motion than we experienced on Apollo 8. The S-IC separation felt more violent on 13 than it did on 8, maybe that's because I was in a different seat, I don't know. But there was about three sharp transients of the cut-off and a couple of big bangs where we were thrown backwards longitudinally on our straps before the S-II went off. And the S-II was, of course, just as smooth on 13 as 8 except for the number 5 engine. And we did not experience the vibration that we experienced on 8 towards the end of the S-II burn. And the S-IVB was - had more vibration than we had on 8.
Okay, Jim, got all that.
The up - the update on the ORDEAL ball was a good one. At the burn, we were about - just about 8 degrees. We had to pitch down. The yaw was right on, all the way through the entire burn, and just towards the end of the burn, the ball started going back in pitch a little bit. [Pause.]
Okay, sounds good, we'll give Mike Wash a gold star on that one. [Pause.] Okay, Jim, stand by 1 while I see if we have any extra questions. [Long pause.]
Jim, while we're waiting to see if they have any more questions, I'd like to read you the booster people's preliminary analysis on the - the S-II cut-off. Over.
That's very interesting. Go ahead.
Okay, preliminary analysis of the data indicates that the center S-II engine vibrated at a somewhat higher amplitude than we've seen on previous flights, and it started at about 160 seconds into the S-II burn. As a result of these vibrations, the engine chamber pressure decreased to the level where the two low-level thrust sensors, the thrust-okay sensors, initiated center engine cut-off. Early evaluation of data indicates that no damage occurred to the engine, and the cause of the increased vibration amplitude is still under investigation. Over. [Pause.]
I'm glad it was the center engine.
Yeah, right. [Pause.]
Joe, do you have any word on what marks we had for TLI?
At the time of TLI, as I recall, you had 6 seconds longer than the nominal burn which was 3 seconds longer than the 3-sigma low burn, and you were also Go for a second-opportunity TLI if we had required one. [Pause.]
Okay, we were just wondering because it appeared to us that we had a longer TLI burn than had been predicted.
Yes, you did. We confirmed that - that - that cut-off time just about as you saw it, and I don't have an explanation for it, but it was within the 3-sigma margins.
13, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger, we have no further questions. All the answers were clear and satisfactory, and we thank you very much. You can press on with the rest of your busy day.
Right-o.
And, Houston; 13.
13, Houston. Go ahead.
Okay, Joe. Out window 5, I just picked up the tumbling object again so, for sure, it must have been a SLA panel. I don't think we could still be in the proximity of the S-IV at this time.
I don't think so, Fred. It's several hundred miles aft of you. 700 miles is - is the number, I'm told. And since the SLA panel didn't make the midcourse correction, that might be it. [Pause.]
Yes, it's - I can't really tell for sure even through the monocular that it is, but it looks the same relative position to the stars. And the best I can tell, about the same intensity and still about the same distance from us.
Can you see it tumbling. Does it have a shape, or is it a point?
No. I can tell it's tumbling; I guess the flat side not only is facing me, it's not only much brighter, it also grows larger.
Okay. Very interesting. We'll see if we can figure out where that's at relative to you. They keep updating the S-IV impact on us a little bit. The last guess we had was that it'll impact about the same longitude we gave you but close to zero latitude and a little bit later. You still won't be able to see it. And they're saying it might make a...
Roger.
...they're saying it might make a 100- to 120-foot crater, too. [Pause.]
It'll - it'll still be past the terminator for us for a while.
Right. It will be at about the rev 20 terminator, so it will be late in your lunar orbit activities before you'll be able to photograph it, and FAO is looking at whether we can work that in or not.
Okay.
Houston, 13.
13, Houston.
Hey, Joe? Is FAO ready to - or do you - or are you ready to give me those items that we made optional and deleted in the solo book?
Jack, we're not quite ready with that yet, but we will be before too long. Can you wait awhile?
Sure can. I got lots of time.
Okay.
Hello, Houston; Apollo 13.
13, Houston. Go ahead.
Just a passing comment, Joe. We're having lunch right now, and I just made myself a hotdog sandwich with catsup. Very tasty and almost unheard of in the old days.
That's correct, 13. As I recall the Flight Plan, you're supposed to put mustard on the hot dogs and not catsup, but I guess we'll overlook that.
We blew it.
Right. How's everything going?
Ah, Pretty good. We have about four different methods of spreading catsup, right now.
Okay. Jack, we'll have your update to you before too long.
Okay. Fine, Joe. We did a pit check on the Hycon camera and everything works okay.
Okay. Beautiful. We don't have anything else for you at the moment.
Houston, 13.
13, Houston. Go ahead. [Pause.]
Okay. We'd like to get the FM up now to look at some inside pictures there.
Okay. Stand by and I'll get a Go on this. [Long pause.]
13, Houston.
Go ahead.
That's acceptable, Fred, and meanwhile, when you guys are ready to copy, we've got an MCC-2 PAD for you.
Okay. Stand by 1.
Roger that. And also if you can go to P00 and Accept conveniently, we'd like to uplink. [Pause.]
Okay. You've got it.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay, Joe. You can go ahead with the P30 PAD.
Okay. Here we go. MCC-2, SPS/G&N: 63634; plus 0.96, minus 0.23; 030:40:49.00; minus 0021.7, minus 0001.7, minus 0008.0; 080, 164, 326; N/A, N/A; 0023.2, 0:03.5 - We'll give you half a second on the burn time because it's so short - 0018.5; 44, 135.9, 28.1; and the rest is N/A. Comments: set stars 31 and 23; roll align 288, pitch 205, yaw 034; no ullage, LM weight 33499, and - Over.
Okay. MCC-2, SPS/G&N: 63634; plus 0.96, minus 0.23; 030:40:49.00; minus 0021.7, minus 0001.7, minus 0008.0; 080, 164, 326; N/A, N/A; 0023.2, burn time 0:03.5, 0018.5; 44, 135.9, 28.1; and the rest N/A. Set stars 31, 23; roll align 288, pitch 205, yaw 034; no ullage, LM weight 33499.
Roger. Readback correct. I have two more short comments on them, but I want to wait just a second and make sure I understand them before I pass them to you.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay, Fred; Houston.
Go ahead.
The two additional comments were just that, first of all, they biased Delta-VC by minus 0.34 feet per second based on your EMS null bias checks. That's just for information. And the second one also for information is that your targeted pericynthion is 60 miles [111 km] after this correction. [Pause.]
Okay, understand. For Jack's information, the EMS Delta-V bias is 3.4, and our targeted pericynthion after this maneuver is 60 miles.
That's correct on the pericynthion. The EMS bias is 0.34, very small.
Okay. 0.34 on the EMS Delta-V bias.
Roger. And...
Hey, Joe, we'll give...
Go ahead, Jack...
We'll give you - we'll give you the read - we'll give you the results of another null bias test for comparative purposes right before the - oh, at the proper time.
Okay. Real fine; and the computer is yours.
Okay. Thank you. Going Block.
Okay, Houston; 13. Are you copying the torqueing angles on the P52?
Okay, Jack. Give us a second. [Long pause.]
And, 13, Houston. We have them. You can torque them.
Okay, Joe. Time of torqueing; 29 hours, 0 minute, 30 seconds.
Roger that.
Apollo 13, Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Hey, you've got a new CapCom on now with the Black Crew, and we have about three items to give you, Jack.
Okay. Stand by 1. Are these updates or what?
I'm going to give you some High Gain Antenna angles for TV and the rest is just information, general words.
Go ahead there, Vance.
Okay. Burn attitude for TV, your pitch and yaw angles are as follows: Pitch, minus 1 - minus 69; yaw, 180; High Gain.
Okay.
Okay. Second point is that you're Go for MCC-2. Everything's looking good here.
Okay. Real fine.
And the last item's for Jack. Jack, preliminary indications are that you can get a 60-day extension on your - filing your income tax if you're out of the country.
That's good news. I guess I qualify.
Yeah, we were just looking at the map, and you're south of Florida so you're not in the country now. [Pause.] But we wondered how about your car tags. Have you taken care of those?
Yeah, I did, as a matter of fact. I think I did.
Known as, 'plan ahead.'
Okay. Good. [Long pause.]
And, Apollo 13, Houston. Recommend Omni Alpha until you get to the burn attitude.
Okay. Omni Alpha.
Okay, Houston; Apollo 13.
13, go ahead.
Okay, Vance. The EMS Delta-V pass passive, the results of the no-bias pass in 100 seconds, have been from 100 to 101.5.
Roger. Copy plus 100 to plus 101.5, and that agrees fairly closely with the last one, as I recall.
Okay. Fine.
Okay, Houston. We're at P40 burn attitude. Jim is on the sextant star check, and we do have a star in the sextant.
Roger, Jack. Copy. Very good.
But we couldn't tell you whether it's 44 or not.
Whoops. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston; 13. We're a little bit ahead of ourselves. Do we have a Go to do the fuel cell purge and the waste water dump? [Pause.]
Jack, that's affirm. You have a Go for those.
Okay. We're on our way.
Apollo 13, Houston.
Go ahead.
Jim, battery A is charged now. Whenever you want to unhook it will be fine with us.
Okay.
Houston, 13. Are you still planning to have TV at the scheduled time? [Pause.]
Okay, 13; Houston. That's affirm. At the Flight Plan-scheduled time.
Okay. All right. [Pause.] We've got a beautiful sight we want to show you. [Pause.]
Right. [Long pause.]
13, Houston. You can go ahead with the TV now. We're standing by. [Long pause.]
Okay. Here it comes.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay. Jack. It's coming in, and it's right in the center of our screen.
Okay, Vance.
Can you - Think you could guess what that might be, Vance? Better than Charlie?
I don't want to start flipping coins at this point.
Okay, Vance. We're pointed just a little ways off from looking directly at the Moon. Jim is holding the camera through window 3. The Sun is coming at about 40 degrees off our left side, and what we are going to show you in just a minute is about 30 seconds of waste water dump and just show you just what it looks like. It's really fantastic.
Okay. We'd like to see that. [Long pause.]
Okay. We saw some droplets speeding out for a little while, Jack. Now we don't see anything.
Actually, Vance, what you're looking at is solid water droplets coming out just about all the time. It lights up the whole sky around the Moon. It's just far too fine for you to see. Now I think they're coming out a little thicker.
Okay. Yeah, we see those.
Jack's complaining about seeing stars. [Long pause.]
FIDO says he can understand why that would perturbate a trajectory now. [Pause.]
It's amazing watching these little frozen droplets maneuver. They seem to go in all directions, but finally after they get out a certain ways, settle down and they all seem to be traveling about the same direction. [Pause.]
Right. That's coming in real well. [Pause.]
The objects in the foreground are parts of the LM that you're looking at. [Long pause.]
The camera is now going to [garble]. [Pause.]
We can just barely see those parts of the LM. They must be in a shadow. [Long pause.]
Okay. Now you are looking at a thruster quad at the lower part of your screen.
I've got the f-stop all the way open now, Vance; that's quad [pause] quad 1 you're looking at with the LM should - The Moon should be in view just over the top of the quad.
Right. We see the nozzle of the quad, but it's dark and it's not easy to see. [Long pause.]
13, Houston. INCO suggests you try Average if you're in Peak to see if that gives us a better picture. [Pause.]
Okay. We're in Average now. [Long pause.]
I think that helps out. We can see it better. [Long pause.]
Okay Flight. We - we shouldn't leave it there too long.
Okay. Now, 13, request you either move it away from the bright area or else move it back to Peak. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay, Vance. I cranked the focus down a little bit. Is the quad coming in any better now?
It's coming in about the same, Fred, and you're a little weak now on the comm. [Pause.]
We could see when you went back to Peak.
And I'm now zoomed all the way out. [Pause.]
Okay. We could see you zoom in on the Moon, and it's near the center of our screen, just a little to the left. Very clear. [Pause.]
Yeah. I show it just about at 38.
We can't tell if it's gray or light brown, though. [Long pause.]
Do you have your grid down there, Vance? [Pause.]
That's negative, Fred.
Okay. [Long pause.]
I don't know if you can make out the features there, Vance, on the Moon, but it looks like the terminators are at central plains area somewhere around Descartes, maybe.
Okay. We're - We see it just as a bright portion of the lunar disk, and it looks a lot like you see it from Earth. Very bright. We're unable to see any features at all. [Pause.]
It's pretty much the same with the eyeballs in here, and it looks a little bigger now. But the only way I could see it very good at all was with the monocular, a little while ago. [Pause.]
Okay, Fred. Very good. We'd be interested to see in the cabin when you get ready for that, too.
Okay. I'll set up now. [Long pause.]
And, Vance, we're counting down to midcourse-2, we're up to, in our checklist, to minus 6 minutes to go.
Roger. Minus 6 minutes. Understand you're about ready to turn on the gimbal motors and all that sort of thing. Okay. We see the computer now in the upper middle part of the - the panel. I think we see somebody's checklist in the center couch. It must be Jim holding the checklist. [Pause.]
Right. And what Jim's holding now, he's got a pen in his hand we've rigged on a string, as sort of a simple-minded accelerometer. This burn's pretty short and I'm not sure even that's going to show very much. But we'll see if it'll stretch out at the end of its string.
Yeah. We see the pencil at the top of the picture floating around. And Jack's coming into view now.
And I've gone back - Okay, I've gone back to Average now and [garble] the picture.
Roger.
Now in about a few minutes, Vance, I guess we'll see how about the only system we haven't used yet works. Everything else sure has worked mighty fine.
Right. The spacecraft's really working nicely. Okay. We're picking up panel 2 now. Still a little bit of the checklist. [Long pause.]
Just wondering if you can pick up the caution array there?
Right. We just saw your - your testing of the caution and warning system at the left-hand side of the panel on our TV. [Pause.] See the lights all flash on. You're doing it again. [Long pause.]
You mission timer's showing up as a - a brilliant green in the upper left-hand part of the picture. [Pause.]
Roger. I got the camera kind of canted on you here, Vance.
Vance, Jim's going to go to VOX now.
Vance, how do you...
Roger. Read you loud and clear, Jim.
Okay. We'll - what we'll do - We'll be on VOX for the remainder of the burn and preburn countdown.
[Garbled.]
[Garbled.] And what we're waiting for is 54 minutes on our counter or 20 which would be minus... [Pause.]
Jim, we hear clipping on your VOX. Could you adjust it so that you're coming in continuously all the time?
Okay. Stand by 1. [Pause.]
l, 2, 3, 4, 5. How's that, Vance?
Okay. That's better. [Long pause.]
Vance, how do you read the CMP on VOX?
Jack, read you loud and clear.
Okay. Fine. [Pause.]
We show minus 8½ minutes.
Roger. Houston copies. [Long pause.]
Close... [Long pause.]
Is that too close, Vance, or can you make out the SPS engine panel now?
We - we can see your fuel and oxidizer gauges and hydrogen/oxygen gauges at the top of the picture and the PUGS, but it isn't coming in in focus too well. It's a little dim.
Yes. I think the problem is I'm about 2 feet and it doesn't go down but to 4. [Pause.]
Right. We understand that's the panel right in front of your face. [Pause.]
Okay. Vance, stand by for the main gimbal motors.
Okay. We're minus 7 minutes.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Fred, the focus is good enough that we can see the position of your four ball valves at the top of the picture for the big SPS engine.
What would you like to watch, Vance?
Hopefully, you'll see the - or we'll see the two on the left here, set A, go on here directly...
Minus 6 minutes.
Main Bus Ties, two, On, Fred. Okay. SPS Helium Valve, two, Auto and checked Auto barber pole. TVC Servo Power is 1, AC1/Main A; 2, AC2/Main B.
AC1/Main A, AC2/Main B.
Main Bus Ties, On.
Okay. Rotational Power Normal no. 2, AC.
Number 2, AC.
Direct, two, Off.
Direct, two, Off.
BMAGs, three, Att 1/Rate 2.
Att 1/Rate 2.
Spacecraft Control, SCS.
SCS.
And arm your hand controller.
RHC armed.
Okay. Let's do a primary TVC check.
Fred, are you ready to start primary?
Okay. Go ahead on primaries.
Okay. Pitch 1, Start.
Good.
Yaw 1, Start.
That one's good.
Thumbwheel control. 0.96 - plus 0.96, minus 0.23.
That's affirm. Check MTVC.
MTVC checked. Okay.
Okay.
THC...
C...
...Trim returns to Neutral.
Clockwise on the translation controller.
[Garble]. No MTVC.
No MTVC. Okay.
Starting [garble].
Okay.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Pitch 2, Start.
It's good.
Yaw 2, Start.
Okay. Both good.
Good. Good trim control. Minus 0.96 - plus 0.96, minus 0.23.
Good.
MTVC. Translation Control, Neutral. Max trim up to zero.
Good. No MTVC.
No MTVC.
Okay.
BMAGs Mode, Rate 2.
Rotational Hand Control Power, two, Normal, AC/DC.
AC/DC.
Rate 2, Main A/Main B.
B.
Okay. BMAGs, you got three, Rate 2? Okay, we'll proceed for final trim. [Pause.]
MAGs where we are.
Okay. BMAG Modes, three, Att 1/Rate 2.
Att 1/Rate 2.
[Garble], Enter. Okay. We'll do the Gimbal Test Option.
Okay. Proceed.
Proceeding.
Plus 2, minus 2, 0, plus 2, 2, 0.
Yeah. We can hear and feel the engine gimbal as we do the test.
Roger. Good...
FDAI Scale...
...[garble] relay cut in and Trim is set.
FDAI Scale, 5/5?
5/5.
Rate, High and update the DET.
Time?
Let's check it.
Okay. We're coming up on 3 minutes. I'll give you a Mark.
Fair enough.
Mark.
Three minutes. DET is good.
Okay. We're set.
At 58, we want Delta-V Thrust A to Normal.
Jim, Houston. You're looking good down here. Go for the burn.
Right, Vance. [Long pause.]
Okay. Two minutes. Delta-V thrust...
Delta-V Thrust A to Normal.
Normal.
Translation Hand Controller armed. Arm your Rotational Hand Controller. I've got mine armed. Okay, Fred. Tape Recorder, High Bit Rate, Record, Forward, Command Reset. Standing by for 59. It's running?.
Minus 1 minute.
Okay [garble]. [Long pause.]
Average g.
EMS mode to Normal.
Mode Normal.
Standing by for Enter Enable. [Long pause.]
Enter Enable.
Two balls.
Okay. Shutdown.
[Garble].
Okay. Let's get the residuals. Okay, Houston, there are the residuals. [Pause.]
Okay; gimbal motors.
Okay. Copy residuals.
[Garble] secondaries.
Okay. Go.
Okay. Yaw 2.
Good.
Pitch 2.
That's good.
Primary.
On Low Bit Rate. Start. Go with the primaries.
Okay. Yaw 1.
That's good.
Pitch 1.
Okay.
TVC Servo Power, Off.
...is Off. Okay. Record the Delta-VC. You got that?
Okay. You got the - You got the Delta-VC in minus 3.7.
Okay. Function, Off. Mode, standby.
Proceeding now.
Off. Mode, Standby ...
Translation Hand Control Power, Off.
Okay. Power Off.
ROT Power Direct, two, Off.
Two Off.
Rate 2.
BMAGs, Rate 2.
I'm already in low bit rate.
Okay.
Yes, we were on those [garble] so that we had less than 0.2.
Okay. Houston copied your residuals, very low.
Okay. Fuel is 1.0; oxidizer 0.25; the Ox unbalance is reading on the decrease, which doesn't mean very much, and I guess that wasn't too much for a push there, Vance. I didn't see the accelerometer do a whole lot and it was a little surprising how slowly the injector valves opened, at least on the indicators.
Roger. That was a very short burn. Request you give us a sweep across the panel when you get a chance, Fred. Let us see Jack and Jim again. Over.
Okay.
Okay, Vance, I was going to show you on - wonder if the folks might - down there might be interested in how we find out how far we're away from the Moon. Going to do that right now in program 21 here.
Okay.
I'm asking the computer how far away we are. And the computer is telling me we're 121,490 miles out.
Okay. That agrees fairly closely with our map on the wall.
I'm glad. That means you're tracking us too. [Pause.]
And if you didn't see our residuals, it was 0.1 X, 0.2 on Y, and 0.1 Z, and Delta-VC was minus 3.8. [Long pause.]
Jack, Houston. We show you down here 121 thousand miles 520 out. So I guess we all agree.
Okay. Real good, Vance. What I'm going to do is give you a shot of Fred. [Pause.]
If we can get all the wiring out of the way.
The big problem here is, when you move the TV around, this wire follows you like a snake here.
Yeah, we have Fred now. Looks like he has a lariat there, getting ready to rope the checklist. [Pause.]
That's only half of it. We have most of it hidden away. [Pause.] It's been pretty interesting doing all the camera work here to get a little extra training running the TV here, hopefully for when we get on the ground at Fra Mauro. The monitor does make it pretty easy though. [Pause.]
Right. That's a real advantage in the cockpit. You're just a little bit dark. It looks like it might help to have the f-stop run down about one increment. See how it comes out...
Can't do it, we're wide open.
Are you?
I think we're wide open...
Yeah. We're wide open, Vance. [Long pause.]
Okay. Does that help any, Vance?
Okay. It's reasonably good. We can make out Fred fairly well. Looks like he's in a shadow. Hey, that helps. You just turned up the lights, huh?
Yes. We went fixed on the...
Okay. You're on candid camera.
We did notice one thing, Vance. You know that new fad with long hair? It won't work too well up here in space.
What was that one again?
I say, you know the new - the new fad with long hair?
Right.
It doesn't work too well up in space, you can't comb your hair up here.
Well, I guess you have to give up something. [Pause.]
Well, at least it - it helps to try. We can see you trying to comb your hair there, Jim. It looks like your - your beards haven't come along to the point where you've had to use the razor though.
Well, we've been debating that. We thought we'd take care of our beards tomorrow and make that one of our daily routines. [Pause.]
I take it that was a subtle hint, Vance.
No, no. We're not commenting on your appearance, Fred. I mean nothing derogatory, understand. [Pause.]
And, Vance, I thought we'd get a picture of Jack just so that all the girls know that he's still here. [Laughter.] Say hello to them.
[Laughter.]
Yeah, we - we appreciate that. There he is. Big Jack. [Long pause.]
Jack, you're in the shadow right now; we have a little bit of interference from your window, which is very bright, so we can't - I think you're smiling, but it's a little hard to tell.
Think I'm smiling.
Hey, there we go. [Pause.] Incidentally, we've been getting all kinds of bits of information to pass up to you. We've had baseball scores coming in, basketball. Somebody said there's 220 days, shopping days left 'til Christmas. [Pause.]
Yeah, who won the Masters, Vance? [Pause.]
It was a tie in the Masters and stand by. [Pause.] It was a tie between Littler and Casper after 72 holes, and there's going to be a playoff Monday, we understand. [Long pause.]
Oh. Sounds good. [Long pause.]
One thing the world might be interested in knowing is what you do after the burn in the way of configuring switches back. We - We heard you go through the checklist. But, I guess right now, basically, you probably have all the switches back in position and you're in a mode to continue on with - Okay. What does the Flight Plan say? You're going to be doing cislunar navigation. So, Jack you're going to be down in the LEB. Is that correct?
That's right, Vance. Be going down there shortly. [Long pause.]
Okay. The TV now is all but black. Looks like it must be pointing into a shadow.
What he's doing there, he's trying to give you one more shot of the Moon, and right now I'm setting up to maneuver to the optics calibration attitude.
Roger. [Pause.]
And what I wanted to point out, I don't know if it's apparent, but to show the advantage of doing all the dumps just before the burn, we're looking again at the same scene over quad 1 at the Moon. And now you don't see all the sparkly frozen particles outside there anymore. We've sort of run off and left them.
Rog. We - We don't see anything out there anymore in the way of particles leaving the spacecraft. We'd suggest, maybe you zoom the Moon in a little bit again so we can see the shape of it better. [Long pause.]
Okay. That brings the Moon in. We can see the terminator at the top of the melon-shaped disk.
Okay. Now you can see a few of the spark - sparkling particles going across the screen. Those are being emitted from the thrusters. Jack's maneuvering the spacecraft now. [Long pause.]
Okay. We can see those very poorly. Well, actually, they're coming in better now. It looks like little specks going from the upper left part of the screen across to the right, and understand those are from the thrusters.
That's affirm.
Okay, 13; Houston. Just as an item of interest, advise your speed with respect to the Earth now is 4,667 feet per second [1,423 m/s].
Okay. Thanks, Vance. [Long pause.]
Okay, Apollo 13; Houston. The Moon has been in and out of the - the - our screen here. Right now it's off at the bottom side, but we can still see the particles coming off from the spacecraft.
Okay. I'll have to pull it out the window now, Vance. The Sun's coming up on the right side.
Roger. Understand. You...
Do you want to see any shots down in the LEB, Vance?
Say again.
Do you want to see any of the photographs or do you want the TV down in the LEB?
That's right, Jim. It'd be good to see what you're doing down in the LEB or the far corner of the spacecraft where the optics are. Might be interesting to describe what you will do in the next few minutes in the way of sightings.
Okay, Vance. First we're going to give you a shot of the sleep station. [Long pause.]
Okay. The camera's bounced around a little, but we can see the green computer come in every once in a while. [Long pause.]
While Jack's getting the sleep station rolled up, I thought I'd show you one interesting corner. We've got a temporary stowage bag here and that's where all our wastepaper and all that goes while we're - after every meal. It's in the right-hand corner down by our dump system.
Roger. Understand. We're looking at the wastebasket. [Pause.]
And the age-old question that's always asked us is how do we get rid of liquid waste and that line that you see, I think you can see it now, it goes right outside where we open up the overboard drain dump, and all of our waste products, liquid waste products, go out through that line and get dumped overboard.
Roger. Understand, and we can see somebody's foot, as well.
Okay. Fred's now going down there, and he is going to try to get underneath the sleep station on his side where we have a sleep restraint. And the whole object of that is to - merely to position the body between the - between the bottom of the spacecraft and - so it doesn't float up between that and the bottom of the couch.
Roger. The sleep restraint of the hammock is coming into view underneath the couch. It's the white object. [Pause.]
You perhaps can see the zipper of the hammock right now. It's the black lines in that white object.
Right. We can see it.
Vance, these hammocks, by the way, are very comfortable. When we first heard about them in the design of Apollo, we thought they weren't necessary, but they turned out to be very nice devices to sleep in. [Long pause.]
I'm trying now to get down there with Fred to show you how it works. I keep floating up, though, but maybe we can get a little shot here. [Long pause.]
Okay. We have somebody upside down in the photograph there now. [Pause.] Realizing, of course, in - in space there is no really right-side up or upside down. It still looks that way to us. [Pause.]
Okay. That's - That's Fred now. I'm trying to put him right-side up, for you folks back there in the sleep station. Fred, would you move your hands there so the folks back home can see you?
Okay. That's coming in real clear, Jim. We see Fred in the sleep restaint - restraint. [Pause.]
As a matter of fact, Vance, I find my - I find Fred down there all the time.
Yeah. I can see he appreciates that. [Pause.] Looks fairly comfortable. [Long pause.]
Looks like there's a lot of room down there, considering all the boxes on the floor underneath the couch.
It's surprising. There still is quite a bit of room down there even with the Hycon camera box down. And right now, I'm going to bring the camera back up. [Long pause.]
Okay, Vance. If there is no more that you would like to see right now, we'll terminate our little TV for you today.
Okay. Thank you very much, Jim. Appreciated seeing inside the spacecraft and getting a look at the Moon that you're rapidly approaching.
Roger. This is Odyssey saying goodbye.
Apollo 13, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. At your convenience we have an item to give you which will have to be copied. It's information on how to photograph Comet Bennett at time 32 hours GET. Over.
Okay. Stand by 1 minute.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay, Vance. Go ahead.
Okay. Time 32 hours, 00 minutes GET. Instructions at completion of P23, maneuver to following attitude: roll, 101.0; pitch, 090.0; yaw, 000.0. High Gain Antenna angles will be: pitch, minus 23; yaw, 93. Use normal PTC procedures to dampen rates. After vehicle's stable, and before spin-up, take photographs of Comet Bennett. Use the DAC on the sextant with magazine G. That is, very high-speed black-and-white film, right? That's the dim-light film. Take three photos, one each at 5-, 20-, and 60-seconds time exposure. Use Auto optics. Noun 88 values are: R1, plus 34717; R2, minus 08028; R3, plus 35075. Take three photos, one each at 5-, 20-, and 60-second time exposure using manual optics. Shaft will be 000.8 degrees, trunnion 12.5 degrees. Comment: Strip off about 50 frames; that is, 2 seconds of - at 24 feet per second before the first frame and after the last frame of the photos. That is, 2 second - 2 seconds at 24 frames per second - before the first frame and after the last frame of photos. [Long pause.]
Is that it, Vance?
And that's all.
Okay. The time is - The event will be at 32:00; and we're to maneuver to the following attitude; roll, 101.0; pitch, 090.0; yaw, all zips. High Gain angles will be pitch, minus 23; yaw, 93. And we're to use normal PTC procedures to damp the rates. And after damping the rates and before spin-up, we're to put the DAC on the sextant with the magazine G, very high-speed black and white film. Then, we're to take three photos, one each at 5-, 20-, and 60-seconds' time exposure using audio - Auto optics. Our Noun 88 values: R1, plus 34717; R2, minus 08028; R3, plus 35075. Thence, three more photos, one each at 5-, 20-, 60-seconds time exposure using manual optics. Shaft, 0.8 degrees; trunnion, 12.5 degrees. And we're to take 2-second bursts at 24 frames per second, before and after these pictures.
Your readback is correct, Fred.
Apollo 13, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Jim, for PTC tonight, request that you disable quads C and D. That's the opposite of last night. Over. [Pause.]
Okay. For PTC tonight, disable quads C and D.
Rog. And advise in approximately an hour, we'll have some read-ups whenever you're ready to take them regarding solo book changes.
Okay. We'll be standing by for it.
Rog.
Houston, 13.
Go ahead, 13.
Have you all got a chance to look at the data on the SPS yet?
Stand by 1, Fred. [Long pause.]
Apollo 13, Houston.
Go ahead.
Fred, it looks good, but they haven't had a chance to evaluate everything. They'll probably be finished with looking at strip charts in about 15 minutes, and after that we'll try to get back with you.
Okay. Thank you.
Rog.
