Houston, Aquarius.
Aquarius, Houston. Go.
Roger, Jack. We're asking whether P51 and a P52 are required in the back side of the Moon.
I think so, Jim, but stand by while I verify it.
Aquarius, Houston.
Go ahead.
We think we know where the platform is, Jim. The tracking looks real good from the last burn. We feel just a P52 will be required.
Okay.
Joe, has your continued tracking changed our pericynthion altitude any?
Stand by. We'll get the latest on that, Jack.
Aquarius, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger, Jack. We're still looking at 137 miles and Doppler's confirming it. We will have a good update after 67 hours.
That's good. I want to say you guys are doing real good work.
So are you guys, Jack.
Aquarius, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, Jim. We've come up with a comm recommendation which we hope will save some power by powering down the power amplifier, if it works. And I'd like to read up the steps to you and have you think about them for a minute, and we recommend trying it before the first yaw maneuver. Over.
Okay. You can read up the steps.
Okay. Step 1; Biomed, Off; step 2, go to Low Bit Rate; step 3, go to Down Voice Backup; step 4, Power Amp to Prime; step 5, panel 16, Power Amp Circuit Breaker, Open; step 6, Range Function switch, Off. Read those back to me, and then I'll have a remark.
Okay. Biomed, Off; Low Bit Rate; Down Voice Backup; Power Amp to Prime; circuit breakers, panel 16, Power Amp Circuit Breaker, Open. Range Function switch, Off.
Okay. And the note says that you should be able to hear us. If we can't hear you in a couple of minutes, you should close the Power Amp circuit breaker on panel 16, and we expect to save an amp or more on this. It should work in the present attitude. When we go to the new yaw attitude, we're thinking about powering up the steerable, leaving the Power Amp off and, if we can get good comm in that mode, we'll still save some power. So if you concur, why don't you go ahead.
Okay. In this mode, you should hear us - or we should hear you, but if you can't hear us, then we ought to close Power Amp circuit breaker again. Is that right.
That's affirm. We'll just run a little comm check after you get done and see how we're doing.
Okay, fine. And if that all fails, we'll go back to our original configuration.
That's affirm.
All amps Primary.
Power amps in Primary.
Okay. Circuit breakers 16, Power Amp circuit breaker, Open; comm; Power Amp circuit breaker, Open.
There's only one. Ready?
Range Function switch, Off.
It is off.
Yes, I think so; yes, that's off.
Okay, Houston; Aquarius. How do you read me?
Aquarius, this is Houston. We read you with a lot static. How do you read us? Over.
We read you with a lot of noise, the noise seems to indicate read you better.
I didn't copy your last remark, Jim. I heard that you had a lot of noise in the background also.
Okay, Houston; Aquarius. How do you read us now?
Just the same, Jim. You're readable but it's very noisy.
Okay. We can still read you. Do you want us to remain in this configuration?
Stay there for the next minute or two anyway, Jim, while we evaluate it.
Okay. I'll tell you what we need, Jack. Try to get this squared away again. We - See if you can't report the right procedures here the procedures, the whole works, before we get all balled up here.
Yes. Okay. You guessed it.
I've come up with nothing here.
we can use.
Stand by for Give me - over on my side there. My -
Find anything back in there?
No, wait a minute.
Better get a there, a paper towel.
Let's just check in here.
Yes.
Well, we should have some around here somewhere.
Yes. They are.
Oh, here they are..
Why don't you put that right up there, just like that. Is that all you've got on it? There you go.
It sure stays on, I'll tell you that. It's built like a regular.
Hey, look out that left-hand window, I can't see a thing.
Well, is there anything done earlier?
Okay. What we do here is,?
the Command Module.
Find the Flight Plan, too, while up there.
Okay. Why don't you recopy this procedure on page 4-42.
We going to keep a log of all the procedures?
We ought to copy down the ones that get water, too.. Keep them all in one spot.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. Speak slow because there's a lot of noise in the background. Have you completed your first 90-degree yaw maneuver? And, if you haven't, we recommend it. Over.
Okay. We have not. We have not completed it. We will start. We want you to monitor the maneuver. Over.
Okay, Jim. And I want to pass you up a short procedure for activating the S-band steerable antenna, which we'd like you to do after you complete the 90-degree yaw. Are you ready to copy? Over.
Ready to copy.
Okay. First, on panel 11, close the S-Band Antenna circuit breaker. Then go to Activation, page 28, steerable antenna activation...
Roger. Copy.
and complete steps 2, 3, and 4 of Activation 28. You'll have to do a Verb 64 to get the pitch and yaw angles, and the last step is on panel 16, S-Band Antenna Heater circuit breaker to Close. Over.
Joe, we didn't get all of that. We just have, "Complete steps 2, 3, and 4 of activation" and then 68 or 28.
28.
Jim, that's...
Then do a Verb 64 to get...
Aquarius, Houston. That procedure I just passed you, please disregard it. Over.
Disregard it. Okay. Do you want me to start my yaw maneuver now? And I'll be yawing to my right. One-way maneuver.
Roger. Right yaw is acceptable, but wait one before you start the maneuver.
Roger.
Aquarius, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay. You are Go to commence the yaw maneuver. If we don't have comm after you complete the yaw maneuver, bring the power amplifier back on. Over.
Roger. Understand. We'll start the yaw.
Okay.
277.
They're almost getting bigger and bigger, Jack. It's over here now.
Hey, you got a list off over here.
All that stuff.
to do is put water in it.
What do I turn that to?
Yes down to 270.
It's jumping now.
Why don't you go Rate/Rate now, before we.
We're on the ascent tank, too.
Houston, Aquarius. Did you call?
Negative, Houston. We did not call. How you reading us?
Get up front and turn that antenna.
And, Houston, could you give us an approximate time to turn off the ascent O2 in case we're losing point with you?
Roger, Jim; and copying about half your words.
Roger, Houston. We'd like a time to go back to descent O2 in case we lose communications with you.
Jim, Houston. That's affirmative. You may go back to descent O2. Over.
Roger. Going back now.
Copy that.
We're up-side down.
Yes.
Think we'll have any trouble getting that with that in there?
Probably not, if everything holds together because we already made one burn.
And the temperatures look good. When you make a burn, does that do something?
Well, Jack. This is going to be difficult.
I'll tell you, we'll have to start thinking about.
How about?
How about?
Yes, we got.
once every hour?
How about that tank?
How much of that oxygen are you going to use for...
We got - water glycol off. need any more water? again?
out there?
Yes, why don't we?
out? Can you get that?
down there.
Houston, Aquarius. Are you?
Aquarius, Houston. Say again, please..
Roger. We have a radio check at a new attitude.
Okay, Jim. We copy the angles. How are you receiving the voice now? Over.
Your voice is excellent.
Okay. Real good. You are clear. We still have a lot of noise, but if you talk slow I think we can manage.
Aquarius, Houston.
This is Aquarius. Go ahead.
Roger, Jim. We're trying to improve our comm down here. We'd like to try going function switch from Down Voice Backup to Voice. Over.
Down Voice Backup switch going from Down Voice Backup to Voice.
Roger that.
How do you read now, Jim?
Aquarius, Houston. Request a short count. Over.
Aquarius, Houston. We're not reading you at all. Request you go back to Down Voice Backup. Over.
All right. Houston, Aquarius in Down Voice Backup. How do you read? Over.
Okay, Jim, we read you now and you'd better stay in this configuration.
Well, try.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, Jim, since we're in Low Bit Rate now, we cannot monitor the DSKY for program alarms, et cetera, and we recommend that, in order for you to do so on board, you push in the following circuit breakers: On panel 11 and panel 16, the Annunciator/Dock/Component circuit breakers. That will allow you to monitor your DSKY warning lights. Over.
Okay.
Off.
Roger, Houston. Would you say one more time please?
Okay, Jim. The circuit breakers are the Annunciator/Dock/Component circuit breakers on panel 11, third row, far right, under Lighting; and on panel 16, also under Lighting, second row, third from the left. Over.
Roger, Houston. We have those two circuit breakers - engaged.
Okay, real good.
Houston, Aquarius.
Aquarius, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Joe, it appears that the best detent possibly to put the stars in the AOT, would be either number 2 or 4. The Rendezvous Radar antenna is now in the way. You might think of a procedure to get rid of it with minimum power and then we maybe we'll be able to see stars in a couple of minutes here in a lower detent.
Okay, Jim. I think I understood that the Rendezvous Radar antenna is in the way and you would like a procedure to get it out of the way. Is that right?
That's affirm; at the proper time, and with minimum power.
Roger. Understand. We'll work that.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay. Jim, we have a handover coming up on the hour; that's in a minute and a half. On the hour, we would like you to turn the S-Band Transmitter/Receiver switch to Off, and 5 minutes later turn it back to Primary. Over.
Okay, Houston. Shortly you want us to turn the S-Band Transmitter/Receiver to Off; 5 minutes later, turn it back to Primary.
That's affirmative, Jim. After the handover apparently they want to make sure that they lockup with you and not the IU.
Roger. And let me know when you want me to turn it off.
Roger. You can turn it off now.
And, Houston, when do you want me to turn that S-Band Transmitter/Receiver off?
Aquarius, Houston. Turn it off now.
Turning it off now.
Okay, Aquarius; Houston. We have data back and I assume we have comm. Over.
Houston, This is Aquarius. The comm is very, very, very noisy. Over.
Aquarius, Houston. Copy that. It's noisy on our end, too; stand by while we think about it.
Houston, Aquarius. I am unable to now.
Jim, Houston. I think you just called, but I didn't copy you.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Jim, recommend you push the Power Amplifier circuit breaker on panel 16 in. Over.
Roger. Power Amplifier circuit breaker panel 16 going in.
Power Amplifier circuit breaker is in.
Okay, Jim. How is the comm now? Over.
A lot of background noise. Let me turn off the Squelch.
Okay. You're quite a bit better.
Whenever I enable Squelch, I lose you. Over.
Roger. Stand by. You are much better downlink.
Look at Noun 65.
Okay.
Okay, Jim. This is Houston. We recommend that you set the Function switch from Down Voice Backup to Voice. Over.
Roger. Function switch going from Backup to Voice.
Okay, Jim. How's the comm now?
Function switch. There's still a lot of background noise, Joe.
Okay. We'll look at it some more. Your comm down to us is excellent now.
Houston, Aquarius.
Aquarius, Houston. Go ahead.
The noise we're experiencing is similar to what we had sometime before when you switched stations.
Roger, Jim. INCO is checking into what we can do about the noise. It may be a problem with the new site.
Roger.
Aquarius, Houston. Is the noise any better now? Over.
This is Aquarius. Negative.
Roger.
Houston, Aquarius.
Aquarius, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. Will you let us know when you want us to yaw another 90 degrees right?
Will do, Jim. Stand by one.
Okay, Jim. We're ready now to yaw another 90 degrees to the right.
Roger.
Aquarius, Houston.
Go ahead.
We are going to try to improve the comm and telemetry by temporarily breaking lock and reacquiring. You may hear some noise in your headset.
Okay. Couldn't be any more noise than we're getting now.
Right.
Hello, Houston; Aquarius.
Aquarius, Houston. Go ahead.
Okay. Now that there's no noise, you can give.
Jim, I didn't copy that. Your comm is pretty good, though. How is it with us?
Good. Okay.
Houston, do you want to reconfigure the Down Voice Backup again?
Aquarius, Houston. I don't think so at this time. Our voice is good now. How's yours?
Ours is very good.
Okay, why don't we stay where we are for a few minutes.
Okay. Houston, Aquarius. We're dead banding in the new attitude.
Aquarius, Houston. Roger that, and your comm is good.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, Jim. In order to save on an amp or 2 of power here, we'd like you to go to the Down Voice Backup comm configuration, which is pulling the power and circuit breaker and going to Down Voice Backup. If we get into a comm problem, all you have to do is reverse that configuration, and it should be good again. Over.
Okay, we'll go to Down Voice Backup and pull the Power Ampl circuit breaker, and if we get into trouble, we'll come back again.
Okay, real fine, and we estimate the next yaw maneuver should start at about 68:02. Over.
Okay. Could you give me that in minutes?
I sure can. That's going to be in 29 minutes from now, Jim.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. We're in Down Voice Backup and the Power Amplifier is pulled.
Jim, Houston. Roger that. You are readable through the noise. How are we? Over.
You are loud and clear.
Very good.
Yes, I guess at this time out configuration, and we have to get.
Okay. What else do we have to.
Okay.
I guess they're going to take.
Well, there's another good one.
going off?
No. we had battery power for a while, we could.
It's locked.
I don't think that was.
powered up.
got one.
all powered down.
have to get.
get our are off.
Yes.
all three.
Seems like the burn.
We're going to have to do something to get all this water out of here.
I'll set up before I turn the thing on.
Okay, we'll get this thing...
Yes.
There you go.
this one.
Okay.
That's right.
Thank you.
I'll wake you up.
All right.
(Coughing)
About four.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Yes.
Over on the.
Well, I'm afraid this is going to be the last lunar mission for a long time.
copy.
Are we in Down Voice Backup
Yes.
Maybe it should reverse itself. I think.
Yes.
Aquarius, radio check.
Aquarius, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Maneuver complete.
Roger, Jim. We show you on telemetry. Looks solid at the new attitude. Just by the way of information, the latest tracking data shows the pericynthion to be holding somewhere above 136 miles, and the PAD you have is still good. Over.
Roger. Understand.
Okay, and, Jim, we wonder whether you've attempted to get drinking water out of the Command Module po-ti tank yet. It's - Is that going all right or do you have any questions on it. Over.
do it at 169 hours.
We're all do it at 169 hours - or 69 hours.
I need a Command Module activation.
Houston, Aquarius. Over.
Houston, Aquarius.
Aquarius, Houston. Go ahead.
As we approach the burn, you want to go through the same check that we did for the last burn. That is, we want to make sure we have everything powered up circuit breaker by circuit breaker in conjunction with your direction. And for we ought to have a procedure for powering up the Command Module again when we have to go back into the Command Module.
Okay, Jim. We copied that. First of all, you want to go through the circuit by circuit breaker careful powered-up procedure for the next DPS burn, and we're working on that. Secondly, you want a procedure for powering the Command Module up again when you have to re-enter it and power it up and we're talking about that and working one up, and we'll get both those for you
Roger.
Joe, can you also get us an idea about how far out we can expect to make it on the Command Module batteries?
Okay, Jack. It sounds as though we probably don't want to power up the Command Module before EI minus 2 hours. That doesn't mean we can't start our procedure a good deal before that, but we don't want to power it up much before EI minus 2. Over.
Okay. I was just thinking in case something - we had the sort of problem here about how we would go about getting in the Command Module we need to power up - and - in order to make it back into Earth.
Right, Jack. It's quite clear that we're going to have to very carefully make up a full checklist for you on that; we'll do it.
What they're going to do is power Aquarius up.
Oh, well, we've got to have something to. Besides, we can get rid of the LM decide then what they'll do.
My guess is what they'll do - Well, I guess, align the GDC and get EMS.
And we haven't even figured out yet the batteries, have we?
Oh, I'm sure we have.
hundred ampere-hours. We had it figured out that we had 550 ampere-hours left..
bigger than 133 hours.. Oh, yes, I guess - Yes, he's the descent Thursday afternoon. He had it figured out that - for a splashdown at number of hours - 74 hours, and we've figured out that we - I don't know how we arrived at this - but he added up all the.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, Jim. We just thought of something; namely, that we probably should get the lithium hydroxide canisters out of the Command Module reasonably soon just to make certain that they don't stay in there and possibly swell up until they'd be hard to get out. I wouldn't wake up Fred for that, but it's something you should do possibly before you go to sleep.
Roger. Will do.
Okay.
Good morning, Freddo. We're 68 hours, about, and 46 minutes. Did you sleep good?
lithium hydroxide.
Yes, I think I'll do that right now. Freddo, get on the.
Okay, Jack, take the lithium hydroxide canisters out. Tie them down, or something like that Command Module. And then get us some food.
How much time did you say these batteries had?
800 ampere.
Aa-ah. Think I'll get an aspirin - a couple of aspirin again.
I'd like a couple of aspirin, too.
Well, would you like some pictures?
Be sure you get all the water out you can..
You're holding your attitude right now. What time have you got to?
Probably another 5 minutes.
How much water in the?
What time was it when we powered up the LM, do you recall? 58 hours?
How did the water come out?
Okay,. That's another big, man. If we have to start drinking water out of the drink damn near a gallon a day.
I'm also figuring that when we've got to go back in there, we'll take the drogue and the food back here - take these - put these back in there..
Hello, Houston. How do you read?
Hello, Houston; Aquarius.
Aquarius, Houston; did you call
Okay, you hear me, Joe?
Oh, not very good, Jack; suggest that for communication here, we go to Power Amplifier circuit breaker In and Function switch to Voice.
Okay, I didn't want to get through or anything. I just wanted to check and see if we had you at all in this mode.
Oh, yes, we do have comm. You're extremely noisy but if you read loud and slow we can easily copy it.
Okay. Joe, I read you loud and clear on this mode.
Roger, we understand that. It is strictly a downlink problem and you can stay in the Down Voice Backup mode if you want. If we get involved in conversation, I think we'll want to go back to Normal voice.
How you doing, Jack?
Do you have an hour on your clock for?
Joe, this is Aquarius; wonder if you can give me the GET time of initial power-up?
Fred, Houston. Understand you'd like to know the GET of your initial powerup, is that correct?
Yes, the second time in here.
Okay, stand by.
in flight.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay, we don't have a precise time for the starting of that procedure yet; we are working on it real hard. It won't be for several hours; and we'll pass it up to you just as soon as we get it. Over.
Okay, and, Joe, you want us to start a PTC maneuver at this time?
Stand by and I'll check.
Okay.
Aquarius, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger, Jim. We would like the next yaw maneuver in about 6 minutes. Over.
Roger.
Okay.
Oh, yes, yes. Keep opening - open the jets slowly. Keep working at it.
Is there some way that we could water in the PLSS?
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay. Our estimate is that we will start powering up for the DPS burn at about 76 hours elapsed, which is about 6¾ hours from now.
Roger, Joe. Understand.
Okay, Joe, about 76 hours or so and I guess you misunderstood. My question was what was the GET way back when, when I first came across to the LM and transferred to LM power? How long have we been living on the LM, now?
Oh; Roger. Stand by. I'll give you that. Yeah, I did misunderstand.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, the time of transfer to LM power was 57 hours, 11 minutes. For your information, we seem to be reasonably fat on power. In fact, we are looking at a procedure that we might recommend to you later on after the burn and so forth of powering up one of the Command Module main buses via the LM umbilical. This would enable us possibly to charge up the Command Module batteries. Over.
Okay, Joe. That sounds great. I just thought that to pass the time, I'd do a little backseat quarterbacking, here.
Roger.
How's the water doing?
How are you going to get it? Press the tank
How am I Jack?
Take a check, Jack, and see how and see how we can.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We request Aft Omni at this time. Over.
Aft Omni.
That's affirm.
Yes. is going to be 123.
You mean you're 12247?
Yes.
I'm trying to this heater over here.
Yes. I'll that.
Jim, that spacecraft's looking pretty close; a about 86 or.
Well,.
Aquarius, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, Fred. I have a few words for you on some things we want to do in the next few hours, and in order to get good comm for that and also in order to give FIDO a few minutes of ranging, I want to have you put the Power Amplifier circuit breaker in panel 16 in, the Voice Function switch to Voice, and Ranging Function switch to Ranging. Over.
Now I'm in Normal voice and Ranging is up.
Okay, Fred. And you're loud and clear down here now. Okay. What we're getting a procedure ready for you is to do an AOT Sun check at approximately 74 hours or in just a little over 3 hours. That will be a detent 2; we'll have a detail procedure up shortly and it will include a Rendezvous Radar redesignation to get it out of the way and a P52 maneuver to the attitude. It's our feeling that if that checks out within 1 degree that your platform will be okay for the burn without a subsequent P52. If it's not within 1 degree, we are working up an Earth/Sun alignment procedure to align the platform, and we'll have that up to you later. Okay. Assuming that the Sun check is okay, we will then give you a star for a confidence check on the back side when you're in the darkness. We'll be updating a burn PAD to you prior to LOS going around the Moon. We'll have another look at you after AOS, and we'll update the PAD if required. Right now that update should be very small. Over.
Okay. Stand by one.
Okay. Joe. As I read that, at 74 hours we're going to do an AOT Sun check at detent 2, which is going to require the Rendezvous Radar out of the way. And we use P52 Auto maneuver to get there, or at least the angles out of that, and if this passes within 1 degree, you're saying the platform is okay for the maneuver, and we won't need a subsequent P52. But even if it is okay, you'll give us a star which we can use for our check when we're in darkness. If this check flunks, you'll pass us on up then an Earth/Moon align procedure.
Okay, Fred. That's correct, except the align procedure that we're working on is an Earth/Sun align, and other than that, that's correct. Incidentally, this PC plus 2 maneuver looks like it will still be around a 900-foot-per-second maneuver and that it will get you back to the mid-Pacific line at 142 hours.
Okay. That was an Earth/Sun check, Joe. We're getting a little close to the Moon now. And the PC plus 2 maneuver still looks about 900 foot per second to get us at mid-PAC, at about 142 hours.
That's right.
Aquarius, Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Okay, Fred. We got a good batch of ranging and now we'd like you to reverse the configuration, Ranging to Off, Voice Function to Down Voice Backup, Power Amplifier circuit breaker out; we'll be talking to you.
Down Voice Backup with the Power Amp breaker open now. How do you read?
We read you satisfactorily, Fred.
Okay.
Jim and Jack are in the upstairs bedroom taking a nap now.
I didn't know that was upstairs.
We have the first space station.
(Laughter.)
And, Houston, Aquarius.
Aquarius, Houston. Go ahead.
One other thing you might have somebody look at - I don't want to bother the guys upstairs - the drain hose that we've got in the Command Module, I wonder if we can find out if it will plug into the PLSS and in which case we can keep transferring - later on at least - the Command Module water into the LM via the PLSS.
Okay, Fred. You're almost up with us. We are looking real hard at getting water from the Command Module waste tank into the PLSS, using that hose and then dumping it from the PLSS into the LM ascent tank, and we think it is feasible; we're checking it out to make sure.
Okay.
Okay. I have time to do another maneuver here, Joe.
Okay, Fred. Let me verify that.
Fred, Houston. That is verified. You can go ahead with the yaw maneuver.
Roger.
Okay. Just made another maneuver. We allowed for a little too much roll, there. I wonder if that's too much, or should I try to take it out now that I got it stopped.
Fred, this is Houston...
Twenty degrees roll left - Yes. All right; go ahead.
Okay, Fred. I didn't copy the beginning of your message.
Okay, I - I was talking to Jim, there.
Sorry.
