Aquarius, Houston. How do you read?
I read you loud and clear, Jack.
Okay, Jack. What's your status, who's sleeping, and who's working?
Well, right now we're all three kind of working. Do you have any recommendations?
Yes, looks like to us from here that you and Fred ought to get some sleep, and that you ought to eat in about 6 hours. And that the Skipper ought to go to bed about 113 hours.
Okay.
I've got some other information. We shouldn't have some good dope on your trajectory for about 2 hours. Looked like to us that the burn was real good, however, and we're taking a close look at it, and we'll get back with you on that in about 2 hours from now. Another thing that we're expecting to have happen is that the SHe tank is going to reach its burst limit. The earliest time we predict this will happen will be at 107 hours on about 25 minutes. And the latest probable time is at 110 hours, and this is supposed to be a nonpropulsive vent, but you might hear it and you might see something.
Okay. That's good news. We were wondering about that. And I'll relay all the other information you gave me.
Okay. And if the SHe tank does burst during this time frame before we get trajectory info, why, that will delay our trajectory info somewhat. Your consumables, your rates is now good through 152 hours.
Jack, wait a minute. Let me copy some of this down.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay. I'm ready now.
Okay. We're predicting that you still have more water than you need. And one thing we'd like for you to do is when you're going to sleep up there in the Command Module take a look through the optics and see if you can see any stars.
Okay, Jack, I will do. Jim and I were able to spot constellations from the windows of the LM when there's no venting taking place. Could you give me some time on these consumables, what you're predicting they're good for? I think you started to give them times, didn't you, or was I just hearing things.
We started to give you some times. We think we might be able to give you some better ones pretty soon. But it looks like your water is good through 154 hours, and you've got O2 through 272 hours, plenty of lithium hydroxide, and your amp-hours ought to be good through 199 or 200 hours. Over. [Pause.]
Okay; good. Copy that. [Pause.]
We expect that your water rate is going to drop off and at the time, Delta will go up to 160 - 165 hours quite shortly. Another thing we're interested in is what's your status on rest and medication.
Okay. None of us, I know of, had any medications, and right now as far as rest, I suppose we're no tireder than normally in this situation. I'm going to relay the work-sleep cycle.
Okay. And don't forget to look through the optics when you go up in the Command Module. [Pause.]
[Laughter.] Okay. I'll do that.
Jack, as luck would have it, we just now started to vent a little from the Command Module [Garbled] [Long pause.]
Aquarius, Houston. Sorry about that but there's too much background noise to read you. I think we'll have to wait until you come up on a new antenna. Over.
Okay, Aquarius. Go ahead now. I think can hear you.
Okay. Okay, Jack. I was going to say, as luck would have it, the Command Module picked this time to start venting again, so I probably won't be able to get a good hack out of stars out of the telescope.
Okay. Thank you. And if you can think of it, when the time comes up, when you're not venting, how about remembering to take a look through them and give us a word?
Okay. Will do.
Houston, Aquarius. [Long pause.]
Go ahead. Over. [Long pause.]
Aquarius, Houston. Did you call?
Yes, Jack. I just got a question. How long are you predicting our Command Module LiOH canisters to last in here?
Okay, Jack. We've got 14 cartridges that'll last 157 hours, plus we've got the LM primary cartridge with 23 hours, and we've got two PLSS cartridges with 7 hours apiece.
Okay. I was just curious as to how much time we've got out of these two cartridges.
Stand by 1. I'll get a prediction on that. By the way, I hope you're keeping track of the ones you've used and the ones you've not.
Yes, right now, we have numbers 7 and 8 in the LM here.
Roger.
They were two brand new fresh ones.
Aquarius, Houston. In regards to the CO2 canisters, by the way the PCO2 is reading 1.6 down here now. We expect that we can get 6 more hours out of the two canisters that we have there - 6 hours at least. However, at 112 hours, when we've got several people up, we're going to rig up two more and we have the new simplified procedure for doing this. However, in the meantime, should we need to have a canister change, we plan to switch to the LM primary canister. Over.
Okay. Copy that, Jack. [Long pause.]
And, Aquarius, how's your PTC holding up?
Well, we got a little bit off Jack. The - It starts high in the LMP's window and goes low in the CDR window. [Long pause.]
So we've got a little bit of a wobble on it. Of course, the Command Module venting doesn't help, either.
Houston, Aquarius.
Go ahead, Aquarius.
Jack, in reference to your question about the PTC, on this last complete revolution, the Sun first appeared in the very top right corner of the LMP window, passed over the CDR window, and was visible through the overhead window, and now the Moon is - came pretty well through the center of both windows this last time. [Pause.]
Okay. Thank you, Jack. Good copying that.
Aquarius, Houston. We'd like to get a little better idea of how PTC is going. So, what we'd like for you to do is what we did last time. That is to give us a reading on the center of the Earth and the center of the Moon on the - on the LPD.
On the LPD. Okay, It's shifted. Let's see, the Moon's gone by and the Earth didn't come into the LPD last time. [Pause.]
Okay. But when it goes by the plane of the LPD, tell us where it was. Okay?
Okay. Will do.
Okay, Jack. This pass, the Earth came into view at the top left-handcorner of the LMP's window and was going down. However, when it passed it wasn't as high up as the last pass. It did pass into view at the CDR window, but too high up to get an LPD reading.
Roger. Understand it went high in both windows then.
Yes, last time it wasn't even visible in the CDR's window; this time it was visible if you squatted down, but too high up to get an LPD reading.
Okay, Jack. That's good. Thank you.
Okay, Houston; Aquarius.
Go ahead. Over.
Okay. The Moon came into view at the middle of the LMP's window, passed through the CDR's window at an LPD of 5 degrees.
Roger. Understand.
Houston, Aquarius.
Go ahead, Aquarius.
Okay, Jack. On this pass, the Earth came into the view at the top part of the LMP's window, and we got an LPD angle on it as it passed through the CDR's window of a minus 4 degrees.
Okay. A minus 4. Thank you, Jack ...
It's - it's above the - Okay. Are you familiar with the minus 4 being halfway through the sky part, huh?
Affirmed.
Okay, Houston; Aquarius.
Go ahead, Aquarius.
Okay. On this pass, the Moon came into view at the top part of the LMP's window, came across higher. Jim estimates the LPD angle at a minus 15 degrees.
Okay. A minus 15 on the Moon, and sounds like it's set up pretty well. [Pause.]
Everybody's happy with it down there? [Long pause.]
Aquarius, it's a little too early to tell exactly how the PTC is going. We'd like to get a few more points, so keep reading them off, and we're still looking for that Supercrit to go anytime. [Long pause.]
Okay.
Houston, Aquarius.
Go ahead, Aquarius.
The Earth was just fairly high in the LMP's window and across the 14 degree LPD line.
Okay, Skipper; 14 degrees. Thank you.
Houston, Aquarius.
Go ahead, Aquarius.
The Moon went by the LPD at 6 degrees, plus 6 degrees.
Okay. The Earth at plus 6. Thank you.
That's the Moon, the Moon.
Okay. The Moon. Thank you.
Houston, Aquarius.
Go ahead, Aquarius.
The Moon passed by at a minus 8 degrees on the LPD. No, that's the Earth. The Earth passed by at a minus 8 degrees.
Okay. The Moon went by at a minus 8 degrees. [Pause.]
Okay, Jim. We got it. The Earth went by at a minus 8 degrees. On a basis of the data ...
That's right.
On the basis of the data we have so far, your entry angle is 5.99. The block data we gave you on the PAD for a no-Comm midcourse-7 last night is no longer valid because we made this midcourse. [Long pause.]
Okay. Understand, the no-Comm PAD is no longer valid because of the midcourse. Entry angle based on the last 2 hours' tracking is 5.99, and I take it you're going to keep tracking for some time now to see whether we need another midcourse or not.
That's affirmative. [Pause.]
Are you planning any no-Comm midcourse at 134 and change anyway right now, or are you going to wait?
We're discussing that now, Jim, and it looks like we're going to wait on the tracking. For the time being, since you're in the corridor, why, there's no need to pass it up. But we're going to keep looking at the tracking, and we'll probably come up with one.
All right. I'm not too sure what the venting is going to do to us so - when this SHe tank ruptures, what it's going to do for us.
Roger. We don't presently expect the SHe tank to have any effect on your trajectory, and the pressure's up to 1921 now. [Pause.]
Hey, it's going a lot better than we ever expected. What a way to get a data point? [Long pause.]
And, Jack, just think. You thought you we're going to sleep through all your watches.
Say again, Jim. [Pause.]
I said, you thought you were going to sleep through all you watches. [Pause.]
Well, you keep waking me up.
Sorry about that.
Aquarius, Houston. You notice anything?
Yes, Jack. I was just about ready to call you. Underneath quad 4, I noticed a lot of sparklies going out.
Can you hear or feel anything?
No, I sure can't, but I think it changed our - it changed out PTC. Let me check and see what the drift is. [Pause.]
Okay. She's going down through 600 now. [Pause.]
I think we're probably going to have to reestablish PTC. Yes, we got pretty fast yaw drifting, Jack. [Long pause.]
Houston, Aquarius. What are your plans?
We're thinking about them right now. Did you say it yawed some? [Pause.]
Yes, I was in a right yaw and now I'm in a left, yaw; at a much faster rate than the one we put in PTC. [Pause.]
Okay, Jim. We're talking it over. Stand by. [Long pause.]
What's the SHe tank down to now, Jack?
Okay, Jim. It's going through 125 pounds now. And we understood you to say...
Okay
...that it reversed your yaw. Is that affirmative?
Sure did, Jack. It reversed my yaw completely and put in a little pitch, I think. [Long pause.]
But more than anything, it reversed my yaw.
Roger. Have you effectively established PTC in the opposite direction then?
Well, you could say that. I'm not too sure just what kind of pitch or roll I've got, coupled with the yaw. I just saw the Earth go by the LMP's window here, not too long ago at a rather faster rate than we had going the other direction. [Long pause.]
Perhaps you can tell how fast I'm having to shift Omnis.
Yes, we can tell the Comm cycling back and forth. [Pause.]
Is that what they call a nonpropulsive vent?
Right. I'd hate to see a propulsive one.
You and me both.
It's going through 50 pounds now. So, are you seeing fewer sparklies?
Yes. Much fewer. Not any at all, now. I'm not sure whether that vent gave me reverse yaw and roll - left roll - that's - if that's what it gave me.
You say you think it might have given you some left roll as opposed to opposite yaw. [Pause.]
I'm sure it gave me the yaw, Jack, but I'm not too sure [Garbled]
Okay. We'd kind of like to watch it, see what happens for a little while before we make a recommendation. However, we'll need some inputs from you on that.
Well, we're in no trouble up here as far as - as far the yaw goes. Everything's fine. It's faster than we had set up before. We just wanted to get into proper thermal constraint, and it's going to take me 15 minutes to get the thrusters up anyway. [Long pause.]
Okay, Skipper. We don't see any thermal problems as a result of this change. If we see some communications problems, we may have to do something different, but so far, so good. And we'd kind of like to hear from you on LPD numbers, if you get anything going by the window.
Okay. Will do. [Long pause.]
Okay, Jack. The Earth just went through at an LPD of 26 degrees.
Okay. The Earth went through at 26 degrees going the opposite direction this time - left to right. Is that right?
From left to right. That's affirmative. [Long pause.]
Of course, the only other thing that we'd be concerned about is what change in your velocity this might have had and what Delta-V it imparted, and we'll have to look at that for a while before we are able to determine it. And, if there is no significant change, why, we prefer just to leave it the way it is.
Okay, Jack. We're going to get a time on a revolution here, and maybe that'll help you out.
Right. And, for your information, the tank went at 1937.
That's two thousand - 1937?
Right. [Long pause.]
Okay, Jack. The Earth went through again at 18 degrees on the LPD.
Okay. Earth at 18. Thank you.
Okay. And we didn't see the Moon that time.
Okay, Jack. The Moon went through that time at 32 degrees on the LPD.
Roger. Moon at 32. Thanks.
Okay, Jack. Well, we didn't get the Earth that time. The Moon came back through at about 10 degrees, and now we're getting to the Earth again. Stand by. [Long pause.]
Okay. The Earth came through the LPD at 62 degrees that time. And the total time for the two revolutions, - I missed the Earth revolution before, but the total time for the Earth's two revolutions was 3 minutes and 50 seconds. [Pause.]
Say again the time and the - and also the LPD number. You're in the background noise, Jack.
Okay. Okay, Jack. LPD that time was 62 degrees and that was for two revolutions, being at that distance we missed the Earth - The time before we didn't see it. And the time was 3 minutes and 50 seconds.
Okay. Three minutes and 50 seconds. Is that rate uncomfortable for you? [Long pause.]
Jack, Jim said it isn't uncomfortable. It's a little annoying as for the Omni switching, and also he said it's kind of - He said this Earth/Moon relationship's kind of [Garbled] because he doesn't know when to [Garbled]
Roger.
Okay, Jack. We've got a Master Alarm and we've got a battery light flickering.
Okay. Copy a battery light. What battery? [Long pause.]
Aquarius, how about cycling the power temp monitor to find out which battery it is, please.
Yes. That's in work, Joe. [Pause.]
Okay. It's that same old [Garbled]. [Long pause.]
Okay, Fred. I can hear you now. Say again, please.
Okay. It's the same old - same old one. The only light I'm getting is on Bat 2. [Long pause.]
Okay, Fred. We copy - copy your same old friend, battery 2. Could you give us high bit rate for a while, please? [Long pause.]
Aquarius, Houston. High bit rate, please.
How you getting it now, Jack?
We got it.
Okay, Aquarius. You can go low bit rate, Power Amp, Off and Down Voice Backup now. Voltages and currents look normal on battery 2; so ignore the battery light.
Okay, Jack. Power Amp, Off, back to low bit rate, and I'll go back to sleep.
The battery light staying on? [Pause.]
Yeeah. We got a steady on Bat 2, Bat Fault Light and the battery caution light. [Long pause.]
Okay. And is the Skipper in the sack now?
Aah - say again?
Is the Skipper in the sack now? [Pause.]
Okay. Hold on a minute, Jack.
Aquarius, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, Jim. Since the antenna switch is kind of annoying, we've talked them into buying only half of the data. If it gets too troublesome for you to switch antennas, why, just leave it on one antenna and we'll listen to you half of the time.
Okay. It's not really much trouble. That's all we're doing about it. We'll try to keep up with it. And you're satisfied with this attitude so far. I guess you're going to watch the thermal and find out whether perhaps we're going to some other PTC attitude.
Roger. Thermal appears to be no problem. We're looking at what Delta-V might have been imparted due to this, and it looks like we're not going to change the PTC attitude.
Okay. Then Delta-V was a part of it; I hope it raised that angle a little bit. [Long pause.]
Yes. We'll be looking at the data here, and give you a better answer in next 30 minutes or so.
Okay. Meanwhile, back to the drawing board about nonpropulsive vents. [Pause.]
And, with your kind of luck, it probably lowered the angle some more.
Thanks for the confidence. [Long pause.]
And, Jim, we're going to have a handover here pretty soon, about 3 minutes, we may lose uplink for 30 seconds or a minute.
Okay.
Aquarius, Houston. We're handed over. How do you read?
Read you loud and clear, Jack.
Okay. I'm hearing you now, and the noise has come up again, but it will go down. [Pause.]
How do you read now?
Okay. That's a lot better, and we figure your battery glitch was just that thermal switch triggered a mal - a Caution and Warning, just cycled once, and triggered a Master Alarm again. We'll watch the batteries for you, since you don't have any Caution and Warning on now.
Okay. Appreciate. that.
Okay, Jim. Your luck is holding. Tracking shows that your entry angle has gone up to minus 6.24. This is on the basis of all the data we've collected between the midcourse up to the time the SHe tank went. So, we'll continue to look at it, and see if SHe tank did anything to it at all. So it's - The data has gone from 5.9 to a minus 6.24.
That sounds pretty good. We're really getting in there.
How are you doing, Jim?
Not bad. Not bad at all. [Pause.]
Is Jack in the sack, or is he with you?
Jack and Fred both are going to sleep. It's sort of humorous; Fred's sleeping place now is in the tunnel, upside down with his head resting on the ascent engine. Jack is on the floor of the LM, with a restraint [Garbled] wrapped around his arm to keep him down there.
You say Jack is on the floor, and Fred is with his head on the ascent engine.
That's right, with his feet up into the tunnel.
Okay, Skipper. Your luck is really hanging in there. Your water's good up to 161 hours now.
Hey, that sounds great. [Long pause.]
That doesn't include PLSS water or Command Module water. [Pause.]
Okay. Jack, I'd just like to know what - what plans or thoughts being contemplated for the PLSSs or the OPS, whether we're going to use their LiOH canisters or take the devices back in the Command Module with us, or just what will be your plans.
Yes. We're talking all that over now. We haven't decided. [Pause.]
Okay.
