Odyssey, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay, Jack. We'll have a PAD for you in a few minutes. We're getting data now on the tracking, and although we suspect the changes from your preliminary PAD will be very small, we recommend that you hold off on initializing the EMS until we get you the final PAD. Over.
Okay. Will do.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. The sextant star check passes.
Houston, copy. Good show. That was some P52, Jack.
Yes. I was kind of lucky, I guess.
Give you a big gold star for that.
Thank you.
Hey, Joe. We're standing by to copy your new PAD.
Okay, Jack. It'll be a few minutes yet. We want to get it right up to speed.
Okay. I can proceed with EMS check, can't I, Joe?
That's affirmative, Jack. You can go ahead with that.
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, Jim. Your cabin is looking real good. We recommend you turn the Suit Compressor to Off now. Over
Going Off. Boy, it's nice and quiet in here.
Okay, real good. Incidentally, your power is looking real good also, Jim.
Thank you.
Odyssey, Houston. I have your final entry PAD when you are ready.
Okay, Houston. Ready to copy.
Okay. Mid-PAC, 000,152, 000; 142:38:19, 178; and you recall that's GET moonset and Moon-check attitude. Noun 61, minus 21.66, minus 165.37; 05.2; 36211, 6.20; 11197, 36291; 142:40:46; 00:30; the next four are N/A; D zero is 4.00, 02:20; 00:19, 03:38, 07:59. The rest of the pad is N/A for this one. You are lift vector up at the very bottom. And the remarks all remain the same; if you want me to copy them, let me know; otherwise, you can read back. Over.
Okay. Entry pad as follows: Mid-PAC, 000, 152, 000; 142:38:19, 178; minus 21.66, minus 165.37; 05.2; 36211, 6.20; 11197, 36291; 142:40:46; 00:30; all the DLS are N/A. D0 is 4.00, 02:20; 00:19, 03:38, 07:59. All the rest are N/A, except lift vector which is up; and I have the.
Okay, Jim. That's a tiny hair shallower than we had you before, but it's based on solid tracking, and it still is lift vector up comfortably.
Roger. We never did bring that angle up, did we?
No, actually, we didn't.
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay, Jack. We'd like P00 and Accept for your final state vector.
You've got it.
And, Odyssey, Houston. We're also sending you a final PIPA bias update and clock increment. Over.
Okay. Fine; thank you, Joe. How does the LM look? Are you still tracking it?
All I've heard was that it's - that the cabin was holding pressure. I haven't heard anything more. And, Odyssey, we're ready for you to warm up the BMAG number 2's at your discretion and we're curious whether the Moon check attitude is good. Over.
Yes, Joe, it's coming down. I got just about 45 degrees now and it's coming on down.
Roger that.
Odyssey, Houston. The computer is yours. Over.
Okay. Thanks, Joe.
Okay, Joe. The Moon is coming down to about 38 degrees.
Okay, Jack. Sounds real good.
Odyssey, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay. We'd like the S-Band Power Amplifier to Off, center, at this time, Jim.
Off, center, is done
Okay. You're still looking real fat on power. We show you having over 30 amps on the water. If you do get into a bind and don't come up - that's amp-hours - don't come up with Recovery, you can always power down and you can always put the pyro batteries on the line if you need them after you're down.
Okay.
Joe, are you planning to run this all the way down without the suit compressor?
Say again, Jack.
Are you planning to turn on the suit compressor at all on the way down?
That's negative Jack; I'll verify it; but I sure don't think so.
Okay, that's all right with us.
Okay, Jack, this is Houston, we have power, and you can cycle it for 10 minutes if you so desire, but we don't think you need to do it. Over.
Okay, we'll hold that.
Okay, real fine. How did the EMS check go, Jack?
EMS checked out okay...
Good deal.
Its been initialized and setting on Entry.
Roger.
Okay, Joe, are you watching - you and FIDO taking a look at our Noun 60 here?
That's affirmative; hold it just a second; we are looking at 6.13 and 4.80; I'll get a check on that.
Hey that's not too many g's.
Jack, FIDO says that okay.
Okay.
Jack, Houston, your Noun 63 looks good to us also.
Okay.
Joe, how far out do you show us now?
Oh, on our plot board up here, we can't hardly see how far out you are.
Okay.
I know all of us here want to thank all you guys down there for the very fine job you did.
That's affirm, Joe.
I'll tell you - We all had a good time doing it.
Okay, Odyssey; Houston. Just for your information, it looks as though battery C will deplete around main chute time; that's expected; you've got plenty of amp-hours in the other batteries.
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay, I was just going to tell you about that handover we just had, but I was a little late on the - on the ball. Since we're fat on power and we'd kind of like to have S-band with you after blackout - we'd - We'd like you to delete the step on your entry checklist page 2-5, after "Begin blackout," it says "Power PMP to Off." We'd like you to leave it on if you think of it. Over.
Okay.
Okay.
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay. At 10 minutes to 400 K, you're looking good; we're real happy with the trajectory, and a minute ago, we just lost contact with your friend Aquarius.
Okay. Where did she go?
Oh, I don't know. She's up there somewhere.
She sure was a good ship.
Hey, just as I said that, we got another burst of LM data, so I guess it's still ticking.
Odyssey, Houston. Your DSKY is doing all the right things. The G&N is GO. Over.
Okay. Thank you.
You have a good bedside manner, Joe.
Say again, Jack.
You have a good bedside manner.
(Laughter) That's the nicest thing anybody's ever said! How about that?
Sure wish I could go to the FIDO party tonight.
(Laughter) Yes, it's going to be a wild one.
Somebody said, 'We'll - We'll cover for you guys; and, if Jack's got any phone numbers he wants us to call, why, pass them down.'
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay; We just had one last time around the room and everybody says you're looking great.
Thank you.
The mood fits the color.
Odyssey, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay LOS is about a minute or a minute and a half; in entry attitude, we'd like Omni Charlie, and welcome home. Over.
Thank you.
Odyssey, Houston standing by. Over.
Okay, Joe.
Okay. We read you, Jack.
We're looking at the weather on TV and it looks just as advertised; real good.
Odyssey, Houston standing by for your Noun 67 when you get it. Over.
We got two good drogues.
Roger that.
thousand.
Odyssey, Houston. We show you on the mains, it really looks great.
Got you on television, babe.
Iwo Jima Control, this is Swim 2. I have a visual bearing 182.
Iwo Jima; Roger.
Iwo Jima Control, this is Recovery. I have a visual bearing 190. Over.
Iwo Jima; Roger.
Iwo Jima, Swim I has a visual at 110..
Iwo Jima; Roger.
Apollo 13, Apollo 13, this is Recovery. Over.
Apollo 13, Apollo 13, this is Recovery. Over.
Apollo 13...
Go ahead.
see you loud and clear going through 5,000.
Roger, Apollo 13. This is Recovery and your chutes look good.
Apollo 13, this is Recovery. We observed your RCS burn. Over.
This is Recovery. Apollo 13 is descending through 2000 feet.
Okay. Our altimeter concurs.
Iwo Jima; Roger. Out.
Apollo 13 and Recovery passing through 1,000 feet.
Iwo Jima; Roger.
Through 500 feet.
Swim 1 on station.
2 is on station.
Photo 1's on station. Photo 1 observes splashdown at this time.
1 pickup.
Roger.
Photo-1. Splashdown at this time. The three chutes are displaced. They're in the water.
Helicopters: Recovery, I have a clock...
3½ miles Iwo Jima.
Iwo Jima, Roger.
This 401 the Command Module is stable 1 at this time. They are riding comfortably.
Recovery main chutes.
The vertical axis are approximately 15 degrees.
Recovery is maneuvering to grab hold of the main chute the 2 other chutes are still visible in the water. Swim 1, you are clear to move up to position to retrieve the other chutes.
Swim 1. Roger.
This is photo 1, I observe the flashing light on top of the Command Module.
1 on 270.
Warm present Winds in the area from 270 magnetic to approximately 6 knots.
Recovery beacon antenna atop the command Module.
This is photo 1. The Mylar covering above the exterior of the Command Module has been removed in the area opposite the crew exit hatch.
ARIA, our recovery has been one of the main chutes has deployed a raft, just opened...
in the Command Module there's swells 3 to 5 feet from the vehicle. Sea is approximately 1 to 2 feet.
Photo, this is Iwo Jima. Interrogative astronaut condition ordered.
41, Roger. Brings Apollo 13 a crew condition, okay. Over.
Roger. Copy, Iwo Jima.
Iwo Jima, copy.
This is for a conditions in a recovery area, approximately 6/10, cloud cover, combination high cirrus and low stratos.
Iwo Jima, this is recovery. I am assuming Odyssey commander just fine, unless otherwise directed commence a retrieval operation in one minute. Over.
This is Iwo Jima, Roger.
Continue retrieval of that magnitude 12 to 2. You're clear, got you ready for mission. Recovery is taking backup for the gentlemen.
This is photo 1 presently unable to see the third main chute. But Swim 1 is grappling the second main chute.
Okay, Jack you got 13's drift.
The Command Module is very slight at this time in the direction of and a 1 to 10 magnetic.
Presently Swim 1 is still attempting to make connection with the second main chute.
Swim 4 unable to grab it at before we could graple.
This is recovery, Roger, understand.
Swim 1 stand by for a hit.
Swim 1, Over., Over.
Roger, swim 1 should so speeds to the apex cover and the.
Swim 2, this is Recovery. You're clear to deploy a swimmer at sea anchor.
Roger.
This is photo 1, observe the uprighting bags are partially inflated at this time.
This is Photo 1 estimates uprighting bags are approximately ⅓ inflated. I can see partial inflation on all 3 uprighting bags.
Apollo 13, This is Recovery.
Go ahead.
Roger 13, this is Recovery will you confirm a successful RCS dump; over.
That's affirmative; we had a successful dump.
We.
This is Photo 1; the first swimmer has been deployed. The signals are thumbs up in the water; in good condition.
He is making his way to the Command Module.
Inflation of the uprighting bags estimated to be 40 percent. 40 percent.
The first swimmer is at the Command Module. They will commence to anchor an attachment shortly.
Apollo 13, this is Recovery; over.
Go ahead Recovery; 13 here.
Roger; this Recovery; do you have lap to go on formula?
No sir; we closed the display, and were helping Houston copy it; we didn't let it out over the air.
Roger out.
Will you give us our distance to the ship?
It appears from Recovery your present distance from the ship 1 mile - 3002; you're splash down point 3 - 3 miles from the Iwo Jima.
Thank you.
This is Photo 1; the sea anchor has been attached, and have done observed a thumbs up from the swimmers.
Swim 2, This is Recovery. You are clear to deploy two swimmers and the flotation collar; over.
Roger, Roger.
We're getting thumbs up. Everything progressing satisfactorily.
Has oriented the Command Module in the customary manner.
Swim 2 is moving in; to deploy the flotation collar and two additional swimmers. Swim 1 has deployed a smoke in the area, and is attempting to restrain the accessories.
Swim 1 has deployed a swimmer in the water. Swim 2 has deployed 2 swimmers. I see a thumbs up, and the flotation collar is deployed.
The uprighting bags are inflated approximately 90 percent at this time. The swimmers are working the flotation collar in, to the Command Module.
The flotation collar is at the Command Module; the front seat is being extracted, and it is being pulled around the Command Module.
One section of the bungee is being attached to the sea anchor attachment ring; it appears to be satisfactorily connected; the second section of the bungee is approximately 90 percent around the Command Module.
Inflation collar has commenced. It is approximately 20 percent around the Command Module.
The flotation collar is approximately 60 percent deployed around the Command Module
There is no apparent drift of the Command Module at this time.
Inflation collar's progressing normally.
completed around the Command Module.
We are standing by for inflation.
to Iwo Jima. Request your pass to Apollo. Turn off recovery beacon. Over.
Roger, Break Apollo 13 do you copy?
Roger, will turn off.
Roger.
Inflation of the flotation collar presently normal. Standing by for inflation. Our flotation taking place at this time. Recovery is 60 percent complete. Flotation of - inflation of the flotation collar appears complete at this time.
Apollo 13 appears to be riding a little more comfortably at this time. The axis is negligible.
The swimmer is installing securing straps. This has to the power bolt on the upper deck. Efforts are made and he gives the signal for deployment of the egress raft.
this is recovery. You are clear to deploy the egress raft backup position. Recovery goes to ready position.
Ready, Roger.
One further adjustment is being made for the securing straps.
Situation is normal.
Swimmer 2 has commenced his maneuvering for deploy of the egress raft.
Swimmer 2 is in position. The crewmen are standing by at the hatch. The egress raft is in the water now approximately 10 feet from the Command Module.
Two swimmers have the raft and are swimming it to the Command Module.
The raft is at the Command Module. The swimmers are opening it.
Inflation has begun of the egress raft.
The inflation appears to be satisfactory.
The swimmers are working to secure the egress raft to the flotation collar.
We presently have three swimmers in the water and I observe the signal, assembly here.
The Recovery is making approach to the deploy from the.
Swim leader is in the water, comes up. Good condition. Stand by.
Swim leader approaching the Command Module. At this time, the inflation of the platform of the egress raft has been completed and is satisfactory.
The situation static at this time presently has two swimmers in the egress raft, and two swimmers standing by in the water. The swim leader is standing on the flotation collar checking the interior of the Command Module.
go ahead for.
A swim leader is standing on the flotation collar appearing in the forward viewing windows.
Recovery is trying to approach to deploy the astronaut's flotation equipment.
Recovery is moving into position; the rescue net is halfway down.
Recovery is maneuvering to place the rescue net in the egress raft. A swim leader, has the rescue net in hand and it is in the egress raft. The equipment is being removed. Now the rescue net is on its way back.
The swim leader is at the crew access hatch. He appears to be getting ready to open the access hatch. He is checking into the forward viewing window.
Roger sir. Iwo Jima repeat one more time on item Papa minus 113 USB.
Over.
Roger. Copy. Minus 113 dBm signal strength.
Photo 1. The crew hatch is open. The equipment is being passed to the astronauts. The hatch is closed again..
Roger. Copy all.
Situation static at this time. The two swimmers are standing by in safety position in two the water. The two swimmers have the egress raft.
Roger, sir. We copy and their picking it up.
The situation is nominal at this time. Standing by while the astronauts make their preparations inside the Command Module.
ARIA, to MC ARIA Control.
The swim leader is opening the crew access hatch. It is completely open.
Roger okay.
The first astronaut is climbing out of the Command Module, and is in the egress raft.
ARIA to ARIA control.
The second is now on his way out, assisted by swin leaders.
And you want that on all. The third astronaut's on the Iwo Jima raft, third astronaut is standing on flotation collar egress raft.
Swim leader is making his final check prior to closing the access hatch. The hatch is closed. He is securing it with the hatch.
We have three swimmers in the safety position in the water. Swim leader is giving the signal for the rescue net.
Recovery is manuevering for position to commence receive the astronauts.
The rescue net is half way down.
One, two, three, four, five, one, two, three, two, one. One, two, three, four, five.
Okay.
The rescue net is in hand resting on the platform. The first astronaut is climbing aboard, the signal is given, ready for lift.
The first astronaut is on his way up, next one wait.
The first astronaut is half way up.
The first astronaut is at the cargo hatch and is safely aboard the helicopter.
Recovery I have astronaut Haise aboard and his condition is excellent.
Iwo Jima copy.
Recovery is in position for second retrieval. Rescue net is being positioned in the egress raft.
The rescue net is in the raft.
It's positioned on the platform. The second astronaut is climbing aboard. The signal is given for arise. He is on his way up.
The second astronaut is half way up. Half point pickup, no oscillation.
The rescue net is at the cargo hatch, and the second astronaut is safely aboard.
This is Recovery. I have astronaut Swigert onboard. He reports he feels fine.
Iwo Jima, copy.
Recovery is manuevering for position. For the third retrieval.
Swim leader has the rescue net. It is positioned aboard the platform.
The third astronaut is climbing aboard, it is thumbs up, ready to lift.
The third astronaut is on his way up.
The third astronaut is half way up.
The third astronaut is nearing the cargo hatch. He is safely aboard.
This is recovery. I have Capt. Lovell aboard. He reports he feels fine. Over.
Iwo Jima, Copy..
starboard.
this is Recovery. You are clear to deploy your one.
Roger, Roger.
Recovery and Photo, this is Iwo Jima towers. Report your gear and you have charlie on spots 3 and 5. Your wind is 10 starboard and at 10 knots.
This is Recovery. Roger. Copied. Be advised I'll make a wide circle in order to allow the passengers to get into their flight suits.
Roger Recovery.
FAO.
Hey, I'd like to update this.
Iwo tower, this is. We - this is Recovery. We estimate we'll be ready to touch down in 4 minutes, 4 minutes away.
Recovery, tower. Roger.
Recovery, this is Iwo Jima tower. Pass to Captain Lovell that we will have a brief ceremony on the flight deck then they will be talking to their wives in sick bay. Over.
Iwo Tower, Recovery, Roger will do.
Apollo 13.
Roger, you're at Charlie at 3 by to Recovery to 11.
Recovery, Roger out.
photo wants to.
Iwo tower, Roger, your charlie your.
Which swim aircraft remains out?
This is Recovery. Negative.
Roger, Swim 1, we're moving in. You babies ready?
Rescue 1.
to give you a hearty "well done".
13.
Roger out.
net 1. Over.
I want to commend you on your navigation. Welcome onboard the Iwo Jima.
I would like to ask the Chaplain to say a real brief prayer of thanks.
Let us pray. Oh Lord, we joyfully welcome back to Earth astronauts Lovell, Haise, and Swigert. Who by your grace, their skill, and the skill of many men survived the dangers encountered in their mission and returned to Earth, safe and whole. We offer our humble thanksgiving for the successful recovery. Amen.
Now for some additional picture taking. Might not only be professional phographers aboard but also a good many...
Down into the sick bay, medical facility now for 3 hours, of physical examinations. Now they're on the elevator there now. Joking about those beards. Jim Lovell seemed to be having some fun there with his beard. A momentary wait on the elevator here while the photographers get a few more pictures. This is an elaborate medical facility the Iwo Jima has onboard. And, as we said, there will be nine doctors down there awaiting Jim Lovell, John Swigert and Fred Haise. That's 3 doctors to an astronaut. And the first two flip samples, the findings medically speaking will be flown off as soon as possible, to the laboratories. I've been getting a look from the hangar deck of the elevator, who's down from top side. The elevator they use of course to transport the helicopters from hangar deck to flight deck. Once they get down they'll have a fairly short walk, maybe 30 or 40 yards over into the - an opening leading up the medical facility. Sick bay, which may be a misnomer in this case. It does not appear anybody is sick. That's Captain Kirkemo - I know that is. And of course there will be some fast telephone calls we assume to some waiting wives at home. I wouldn't be surprised to see those phones ringing very shortly. There they go. Into the entrance of the medical facility and that should be all we see of them now for the next 3 hours or so, and possibly get an early medical report on what their conditions indeed are. But - the Apollo 13 men home safely aboard the carrier Iwo Jima out here; a perfect recovery; it couldn't have been better - it couldn't...
on display down here now. I have here with me right now Commander Spiuey. I'm prepared to put Commander Spiuey on the air as soon as he gets here in a couple of minutes. I would - we appreciate...
