14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. As soon as you get to your attitude there, we'll be ready to uplink a new REFSMMAT to you.
Okay.
Houston, 14. Do you want me to start a battery B charge?
Stand by, Ed. [Long pause.]
Ed, that's affirmative. Go ahead with the battery B charge.
Okay.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead.
Hey, Gordon. I can - got a beautiful view of the S-IVB now, out of the left-hand window, and she's stable as a rock.
Roger, Stu. [Long pause.]
And, Houston, I've initiated battery B charge.
Roger, Ed. Would you give us Omni Charlie, Ed?
You have it.
Roger. And at about 6:25:20, the LOX dump should start on the S-IVB. You might keep an eye on it at that time. I'll give you a warning about 10 seconds prior.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston. That LOX dump should start at about 10 seconds.
Apollo 14, Houston. The LOX dump should be complete now. Did you see anything of it?
Yeah. It's a beautiful sight, Houston. The Sun was shining from the side; it was streaming out. We tried to get a couple of Hasselblad shots of it from the corner of the window. It's really fantastic.
Roger, Al. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston. You have P00 and Accept.
Roger, Al. We'd like you to try to bring up the High Gain now. Use a pitch of plus 28 and a yaw of plus 317. Over.
Roger. 28 and 317. [Long pause.]
Okay. You're in Auto and locked up, Houston.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Ed, this is Houston. We're having a little problem with our read-out of High Gain Antenna angles here. Would you read out your onboard pitch and yaw angle?
Rog. I have a pitch of plus 29 and yaw of about 320 - 330.
Say again the Yaw.
About 330.
330. Roger.
I'm not having any trouble at all with weightlessness.
I'm not either, Al.
How are you doing, Stu?
Well, so far, so good.
Really very comfortable.
Yes, I - I guess I'm a little surprised at - at the fighting to stay down...
Yes.
... if any.
Well, I think a lot of this is due to these hoses we got on here. Once we get rid of them, it'll be a little different.
There are a jillion stars out there.
I think you've got a whole bunch of little things to look at.
Venting of the S-IVB.
In fact, you've got a - Let me help you with that [garble].
Okay. I think we'll start - I'm going to start clearing my pockets out, in preparation to get this suit off.
Good show.
14, Houston. We have the REFSMMAT and trunnion bias zero in there. It's your computer.
Okay.
Houston, 14. [No answer.]
Houston, Apollo 14.
Apollo 14, Houston. Go ahead.
Rog. Did you get our Noun 93s?
That's affirmative. We copied them.
Okay. [Pause.]
Ed, would you give us the torquing time?
Rog. 006:40:35.
6:40:35.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over,
Go ahead.
Okay. If you haven't already, we'd like you to continue on through the rest of the procedures in the Flight Plan after the P52 down to 6 hours, except don't do the O2 fuel cell purge or the waste water dump.
Okay. That's what we're planning to do.
And, then, Ed, I have a - a longer update; I want you to do a P23, the one that's scheduled for about 9:50 in the Flight Plan - correction 9:30, and if you'd turn to that, I'll give you some new stars and other information to go there. [Long pause.]
Stand by. [Long pause.]
All right Houston, I have the Flight Plan open to 09:30.
Roger. Stand by 1. [Long pause.]
Okay, Ed. On the P23, the optics Cal attitude is the same as listed there. Like you to change the P23 sighting attitude to roll, 184; pitch, 2... [Long pause.]
Hold it, hold it.
Okay.
Okay. I'm ready; go again.
Okay. It's listed there at 42. Roll, 184; pitch, 283; and yaw, 310. [Long pause.]
Okay. The sighting attitude is 184, 283, 310.
That's right. And we have a change in the order of doing the stars, plus a couple of substitutions. I'd like you to use the listed star number 3, that's Gamma Centauri, number 53. I want you to do that star first. [Long pause.]
Hold it a minute.
Okay, 53, Gamma Centauri is first.
Roger. And then the star that's listed number 2, number 2 - 36, will be the second star.
Roger. Delta Ophiuchi.
Okay. And then the third star is a different one, a new one. It will be star 161, Iota Centauri - and Earth far horizon. [Long pause.]
Okay, star 3 is 161, Iota Centauri, EFH.
Roger. The Noun 70 for that star is the same as the Noun 70 on star number 1. It ought to be easy just to write it down. That'll be 00 all balls on the first register, all balls on the second register, and 00120 on the third register. [Long pause.]
Understand.
And Noun 88 is completely different. First register, minus 75603; second register, minus 27129; and third register, minus 59566. Over. [Long pause.]
Roger, stand by a minute. [Long pause.]
Okay. For Iota Centauri, Noun 70 is all zeroes, all zeroes, 00120; Noun 88; minus 75603, minus 27129, minus 59566.
Roger, Ed. Readback correct. Okay, the fourth star will be star number 24, Gienah, Earth's far horizon. And Noun 70 will be: first register, 00024; second register, all balls; third register, 00120; and you don't need a Noun 88 for that one. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. The fourth star is 24, Gienah, EFH; Noun 70 is 00024, all zeroes, and 00120.
Roger. That readback's good. After you finish that P23, we'd like you to do the O2 fuel cell purge and the waste water dump. And then the - the activity to follow is still under discussion here; we're talking over possibly removing the drogue and taking a look at it at that time and possibly cranking up the TV to give us a picture of it back here. So the decision to start PTC after finishing the P23 will depend on whether we're going to request you to give us a TV shot of the drogue and probe. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. Understand, and the - following this P23, you want us to press on with the O2 fuel cell purge and waste water dump that's listed about 11:25. Is that correct?
I guess it's listed there, and it's also the same thing you skipped back there at 5 hours and 55 minutes. I guess that's the...
Do you want us to do it immediately after the P23, or wait until 11:25.
Roger. Stand by. I'll check on that to be sure. Do that immediately after the P23, Ed.
Rog.
And one other thing, while you have a pencil in hand, is a 'Lift-off plus 15' P37 block data when you're ready.
Houston, go ahead with the P37 for lift-off plus 15.
Okay, Ed. GET of ignition is 015:00; Delta-VT, 5700, minus 165; GET for 400K, 045:04. Go ahead.
Okay. GET is 015:00; 5700, minus 165; 045:04.
Roger, Ed. Your readback's good.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Ed. [Pause.]
14, Houston; go ahead.
Roger, Gordon. We didn't quite understand when you wanted us to start this P23 that you passed the info on.
Right now, whenever you're ready.
Okay. Stu's going to get out of his suit here, and we'll be ready in a few minutes.
Roger.
All right, Houston; 14. How do you read?
Apollo 14, Houston. Go ahead.
Okay, Gordon, I just wanted to check and make sure that I was back on the comm here.
Roger, loud and clear.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, Stu. When you get ready to commence your P23, we have a change to the sighting attitude, based on your current estimated time of starting. Over.
Okay. And, hey, could you give me an estimate on - on this? Are you wanting us to press on into that right now, or do you want us to go ahead and get the suits stowed, so forth?
That's - that's really your option, Stu. Whenever you conveniently get ready to run a P23, why don't you check with us, and we'll make sure you've got a current attitude? Over.
Okay.
Okay, Bruce. How do you read?
Go ahead. [Pause.] Apollo 14, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Okay, Houston. I'm getting ready to start the - this P23, and - and I guess that last P52 will still be good for this, and I'll start into the Optics Cal attitude and then get your Verb 49 attitude to start after that.
Okay. And I'll check and see if we want to update our attitude from the one I got here in front of me, and we'll pass it up to you when you're ready.
Okay. [Long pause.]
And, Bruce, I guess I want to verify we do not need another P52. It's been - what - an hour since that last one?
That's verified.
Okay.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
14, this is Houston. We'd like you to acquire us with the High Gain Antenna. Pitch, minus 75; and Yaw, plus 99. Over.
Roger. Minus 75 and plus 99. [Long pause.]
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Change Yaw angle to plus 120.
Okay, Houston. We've locked up Auto Track.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Ed, we'd like you to read out the Pitch and Yaw position meters on the High Gain Antenna for us, if you would, please.
Roger. The Pitch is reading - minus 90, and Yaw is 150.
Roger. Minus 90 and plus 150. [Long pause.]
No, make that about 180 - I mean about minus 80 and 150.
Roger, 14. Minus 80 and plus 150.
Okay, Bruce, how about that attitude for the P23?
Roger, Stu. The attitude will be roll, 179; pitch, 280; yaw, 310. Over.
Roger. 179, 280, 310.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. For your information, the booster people are planning an APS burn on the S-IVB at 9 hours GET even. Over.
Roger. Thank you. [Long pause.]
Houston, 14. Have you any idea where we should look to see it? [Long pause.]
Stand by on that one, Ed. And, if we can get some good angles and stuff for you, we'll send them up.
Okay. We've just been moving around here. We've lost track of it.
Roger.
Ed, this is Houston. Coming up on the S-IVB APS burn, and - we don't have a good attitude for you to look out right now.
Okay. We'll kind of look around and see what we can see.
Roger.
Give us a hack on it, Bruce.
Roger. It's going now. It's about a 4-minute burn.
Houston, we've been unable to spot the S-IVB. [Long pause.]
14, this is Houston. You can try looking out the right-hand side window and - with your line of sight depressed a little bit from the straight-out position.
I guess where the engine bell lies.
Rog. The Sun's coming in that window. [Pause.]
Okay. That's probably going to make it pretty difficult to spot.
Makes it a little hard on the eyes. [Long pause.]
Bruce, we've been sincerely busy with housekeeping up here. We haven't had a chance to - describe anything we've been seeing. We'll get around to that after a while.
Say again what you're going to get around to.
I was saying, we'll get around to - doing a little description for you after a while.
Roger. [Long pause.]
And the S-IVB burn has been completed, Ed. [Long pause.]
Thank you, Bruce.
Bruce, we've been wondering if you found your headset all right when you got back to the MOCR. [Pause.]
Yes, I've got it on. I didn't notice anything wrong with it. You may be a little subtle for me, but go ahead. [Pause.]
You obviously found it. It is working.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. I have a Flight Plan update for you.
Understand. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston, go ahead with your Flight Plan update.
Roger, 14. We have a P52 that was previously scheduled in the Flight Plan at 9 hours GET. We'd like you to hold off on that P52 until after PTC is established, and then run it while in the PTC mode. After your P23s are complete here, we'd like you to perform the oxygen purge and waste water dump. Also perform the Delta-V test and null bias checks, as called out in the Flight Plan at 9 hours and 20 minutes GET previously. And then you can deactivate the primary evaporator at your convenience. And we'll be having instructions for you on what we want to do on - with respect to the probe and drogue, and I guess that we'd like your commentary or your feelings on how you'd feel about pulling it out and reinstalling it this evening before you turn in. Over.
Okay. You want the P52 originally scheduled for 9 to be done after PTC is commenced. You want O2 purge and water dump, and [garble] now and we'll do the Delta-V test and null bias check here momentarily, as soon as 23's been completed. We'll talk about the probe and call you back.
Roger. And...
And, Houston; 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, Bruce. I just wanted to say a word about that P52 that we had just before the P23 there. Went to that P52 attitude and PICAPAR - I went to pick the star that was occulted by part of the LM. So you probably saw me dial in another star. And the stars weren't probably separated too far, as far as the criteria goes. So if anybody's looking at that, that's the reason.
Roger. We copy.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Regarding the probe, I don't think we'd mind taking it out tonight, discussing it with you, letting you look at it, and then leaving it out for the night.
Okay, 14. We copy. And as I mentioned earlier, we haven't really gotten all the inputs yet on what we want to do, whether we'd like to do this tonight or whether we might want to wait until tomorrow, but I'll get back to you as soon as we - we have and we'll incorporate your feelings into the decision down here and send them back to you. And did you copy on my Flight Plan update? We'd like to get the primary evaporator deactivated whenever it's convenient with you all. [Long pause.]
Okay. It has been deactivated.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, on the EMS null bias check, we had a start at minus 100 and terminate with minus 99.4.
Okay, Al. We copy. You started with minus 100 on a null bias check, and you terminated with minus 99.4.
That's correct. The O2 purge has been completed and the waste water dump is in progress.
Roger, Al. [Long pause.]
14, this is Houston. Would you prefer to take time out to have something to eat or press on with the drogue operations now?
I think we could do both simultaneously.
Roger.
[Garble] the drogue, Bruce, is to get it out, look at it, discuss it with you, and give you some time to think about it, and tie it down here with us while you're thinking about it.
Roger. We're tentatively looking at taking the probe out, doing that, tying it down, and we may want to take the drogue out, but we thought you could just lock the drogue back in place, and then the hatch, to go to sleep for the evening.
Sounds good.
Okay. And be right back at you in about a minute with the hot smoking word. [Pause.]
Hey, Bruce, are we going to get in - start PTC before we start in on the drogue?
That's unresolved right now, Stu.
Okay.
Houston, 14. This is a pretty fine snow storm we have going on here.
Roger. We copy.
14, Houston. We're showing about 15 percent on the waste water on telemetry now.
Rog. We've just shut it off. We're showing 22.
Roger. Out.
