Houston, Apollo 14.
Roger, Apollo 14. Good evening.
Good morning, how are you? Or is it afternoon?
I'm fine. How are you up there?
We're just great, thank you. [Pause.]
We're up and brushed our teeth and shaved, and we're just looking forward to a fine day.
Roger, Ed. We saw somebody get up and walk in his sleep and work the DSKY there about an hour ago.
Yeah. That's right.
Just need to get a little practice, Gordon.
He just had a restless finger.
Okay. We've got a site handover coming up in about a minute and a half.
Roger. We'll wait for that, and then I'll go ahead and give you the complete propulsion checks and postsleep checklists.
Okay, Ed.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
I have some dosimeter readings for you.
Okay. We've handed over, and - I'm ready to copy here - postsleep.
Okay. Alan dosimeter, 16037; Stu is 01034; mine is 05038. [Long pause.]
Roger. We got Al 16037, Stu at 01034, and you with 05038.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Okay, Houston. I read you now.
Roger. I think we rotated between a couple antennas there. Got you loud and clear now.
For my sleep, I slept for about 4 hours straight and then another 2 or 3 intermittently, and I feel very good.
Roger.
Now, about the same for me and feel like [garble].
Al, this is Houston. You're very, very weak. Would you repeat?
Okay. I had a sleep cycle about the same for me. I slept soundly for 4 or 5 hours, and then intermittently for another 2 - and we feel excellent up here.
Roger, Al. For some reason, you're not nearly as readable as Ed is, and it sounds like - well, I guess I can't really say what the problem is there on - on your mike. You're getting a lot of - interference when you start and stop a transmission - I got no suggestion on what to do to improve it. [Long pause.]
Okay. How do you read this?
That's a lot better, Al.
Okay. The mike was a long way away from my mouth. [Garble] Did you get the sleep report?
I think we got it. Four to 5 hours good sleep and a little bit intermittent after that. Is that about it?
That's correct. The general condition is excellent.
Al, you're still - breaking up. I really can't give you a good description of what - is wrong, but - you're just not very readable.
Okay. Stand by on that one, Houston. We'll work on it.
Okay, Ed.
And, Houston. I'll go ahead and - start charging Bat A with your concurrence, and we have changed the LiOH canister.
Roger. That's - affirmative. You can go ahead with that, and - also give us the - LM/CM Delta-P as shown at the 27 hours there, when it's convenient.
[Garble]. [Pause.]
And, Gordon, this is Stu. How do you read?
You're loud and clear, Stu.
Okay. I guess on my sleep I'll split it with you about half. I'll say I got 5 hours.
Roger. [Pause.]
My mattress was hard.
Roger. When you're ready to copy, I have some words on - some changes we've figured out for the Flight Plan.
Stand by a minute. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston. Go ahead with your changes in the Flight Plan.
Okay. Before we start, one reminder is that - when you went to sleep, we didn't get any presleep checklist. If there was anything - out of the ordinary there, we'll - presleep report that was - and - we'll take any - Stand by, I'm getting some words from the surgeon here. Okay. Just disregard it. Just trying to - We'll need the - both the pre- and postsleep reports from here on out. Okay, on the Flight Plan, if you're ready. [Pause.]
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. We're going to delay the launch vehicle systems debriefing until 28 hours. And - the P23, which is scheduled at 28:30, we're going to cancel, which will save us some RCS. On - along that line, the results of the last P23 that Stu did, the horizon that he shot at was 28 plus or minus 5 kilometers, and - that's right on the preflight values so an update will not be required. And your average error for pointing error was 3 arc minutes, which rank is right in there with the best ever recorded, and - the expert gives you a pat on the back, Stu, and said it was an outstanding job. [Long pause.]
Ah, Jove! Thank you, Gordon.
Okay. On with the Flight Plan. The Delta-V test and null bias check and the P52; we're going to delay that until 29:10 GET. [Pause.]
Okay. So far, I have that we do the launch vehicle debrief at 28 hours to 27 hours [sic]. We're delaying the null bias and the P52 at 28:10 until 29:10; We're canceling the P23 at 28:30.
That's affirmative, Al. And - and then further after that, we're going to delay the exit of PTC until 29:55. And when we do exit PTC, go right into the midcourse 2 PAD attitude. [Long pause.]
Okay. PTC to 29:55 and then set up for midcourse 2.
Roger. And all other activities will be nominal, except - on the waste water dump - you want - We want you to dump to zero per cent quantity.
Okay. Dump the waste water to zero.
Okay. We have one additional question for the launch vehicle systems performance debriefing. We can either give it to you now so you can think about it, or wait until you get around to it to give it to you. Your choice.
We will take it now.
Okay. The question is, you announced during the docking attempts that you thought the booster was maneuvering a little bit. We'd like you to expand on the direction of the maneuver: the type of maneuver, lateral or oscillating, or any other words to that effect; the approximate time the maneuver was first observed, whether it was before the first docking attempt, between the first or second, or if you can relate it to any other activity; any observed vents from the launch vehicle during the maneuver; and anything else unusual or unexpected that you noticed. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay, question number 10. Describe the type, direction, and the time relation of the booster maneuvers during docking, and any events that we noticed during maneuvers.
Roger; and I was just thinking as I read it that, on that time, we can probably go back on the tape and find out when you mentioned it as far as tying down the time accurately, and that might be easier for us to get than you.
Okay, that would probably help us; thank you.
Hey, that - that's no sweat, Gordon. I - I remember the - the comment when I made it, and what the circumstances were.
Okay, Stu. I think that takes care of all the words they got for you right at the moment. [Long pause.]
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
Our LM/CM Delta-P is 0.3, and I'm standing by for a Command Module consumables update.
Roger, Ed. Copy 0.3. We don't have the figures on that update, yet. One thing I didn't mention is that - we are planning to do a midcourse 2, as is shown in the Flight Plan and that - we'll do it such that it will require a clock update as scheduled at about 54 hours and 30 minutes in the time line.
Okay.
It'll be a roughly 40-minute...
Looks like we...
...roughly a 40-minute...
Say again, Gordon. How much?
It'll be roughly 40 minutes, and I still haven't got used to which direction it is. Actually, it's like - going into daylight saving time. It'll - move your clock ahead.
Okay, Gordon. Looks like we get to send that Tephem update after all.
Rog.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Ed, I've got that consumables update now, if you're ready to copy. [Long pause.]
All right; go ahead.
Roger. GET, 26:00; RCS total, 86; quad A, 85; quad Bravo, 86; quad Charlie, 86; quad Delta, 87; H2 tank 1, 87.98 percent; H2 tank 2, 85.7 percent; O2 tank 1, 93.4 percent; tank 2, 92.6 percent; tank 3, 54.6 percent. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, I read back GET at 26 hours; RCS total, 86 percent; quad A, 85; B, 86; C, 86; D, 87; hydrogen tank 1, 87.98; 2, 85.7; oxygen tank 1, 93.4; 2, 92.6; 3, 54.6.
Roger, Ed. Your readback is correct. And we have had considerable discussion today about the docking probe. There are still four questions as a result of all these discussions that we would like to put to you - the crew. It'll probably take some discussion to answer them. There's no hurry. Don't let us interrupt breakfast there. When you're ready, we'd like you to take these questions and comment on them.
Okay, Gordon. We'll probably be through here in another 45 minutes, and we'll jump right into that one then.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Apollo 14, Houston. Go ahead.
Say, Gordon, do you have any choice news items for us today?
Ah, gosh, I think you all been making all the news. I haven't heard anything very significant and don't have any good summaries for you right now.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston. [Pause.]
Go ahead.
I do have one story here, I'll read from the front page of The Houston Post, this morning's edition. The headline is, "Mrs. Shepard ate an omelette during docking problem." And the first paragraph is dateline Cape Kennedy, Florida; "Mrs. Louise Shepard sat in her motel room eating an omelette while her husband and the two other Apollo 14 astronauts worked with a faulty docking latch that for a time threatened their Moonflight." [Pause.]
She was sure calmer than we were.
Rog.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Apollo 14; this is Houston, your friendly Maroon Team on station. Go ahead.
Well, hello, Bruce. How you doing today?
Okay, Ed. How about yourselves?
Great, thank you. Bruce, these questions that are being proposed on the probe operation, should I copy them, or shall we just let you go ahead and talk about them and then we'll get back to you?
Well, I think probably the easiest thing to do would be to start going through them one at a time, and, if you feel like you need more time to discuss it or to recall the exact things you went through, why we can just take the time as we go along. There's no big rush on it. It'd probably be easier than your trying to prepare a formal report or something and voice it down. [Long pause.]
Okay.
And we're just finishing up the...
We'll be...
We're just finishing up...
It'd be a little while before we're ready to go that way.
Okay. We're just finishing up the change-of-shift briefing down here and it'll probably be 5 or 10 minutes at least before we're ready to roll on it, too.
That's good.
Hey, Bruce, did you get a good night's sleep? You put in a hard day yesterday.
Yes. I got up about 1:30 or 2 o'clock this afternoon. Felt real good.
Rog.
We're happy to discover there really is a patch after all. We're constantly reminded of it.
That there really is a what, after all?
[Garble] is a patch.
Yeah, how about that; that's a beautiful one.
Hey, Bruce, would you pass on to Ray that it was not 100 percent at the bench check.
That's to Ray, that it was not 100 percent at the bench check. You mean the equipment...
[Garble].
...equipment loaded on board was not completely represented at the bench check?
That's affirmative.
We've got the backup crew...
I don't know why, but we...
We've got the backup crew commander standing here monitoring the system.
We seem to be finding a few things around that we didn't see at our bench check and a few crew preference decals.
Yeah. How was breakfast, by the way?
It was great. We ate every scrap.
Hey, it sure was.
Yeah. And I found my headset all right this morning, too, but there was a little difference from last night.
Okay. You keep us posted on that headset.
Houston, 14.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Go ahead. Over.
We're standing by for the booster launch phase discussion and the probe discussion any time you're ready to go.
Roger.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Say, Bruce, how far away is S-IVB from us?
Stand by; I'll see if I can get you a figure on that.
Yeah, and on the same subject, if you got any - say, give us a roll angle during PTC and some place to point the optics, I wonder if we could see it.
Okay. I'll see if we can get that.
Apollo 14, this is Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. We'd like to pick up the discussion on the docking probe situation now, if you're ready.
Okay, stand by just 1 here. [Long pause.]
Okay, Bruce. I guess we're all hooked up and ready to go. [Pause.]
14, this is Houston; go ahead.
Rog. I think we're all hooked up and ready to go.
Roger. I guess number 1 question would be, is - was there ever more than one bottle selected on the docking probe, and if so, which ones.
That's negative. We used primary one, and the only one we used.
Roger; very good. How many times was the Extend/Release position of the docking probe extension/retraction switch operated, and for when and about how long was it held in these positions? Over. [Long pause.]
Well, it was operated per Flight Plan for the initial extension, and the dock latch worked normally. We felt a jar, a good solid thump, but it went on out and then it was not operated again until after the problem started. At the ground suggestion, we went to Extend/Release and then back to Retract - I think twice - no more than twice. [Long pause.]
Okay, so - grand total, I guess we could say that you've had three cycles to the Extend/Release position; the one nominal one, and the two after the problem started developing? Is that correct?
Let's call it no more than four, Bruce. We did one of them on our own, so one normal and no more than three additional.
Roger. We copy.
And, Bruce, no response at all except for the first one, which went normally.
Okay, and on the first one there, you were actually causing the probe to extend, were you not?
That's affirmative. We extended it, and, as Al said, we heard her clunk in and the talkbacks did their thing, flashed barber pole and then went to gray, as advertised.
Okay, then on the subsequent ones about all we'd be operating is the capture latch cocking motor.
Okay.
They probably wouldn't feel that in the form of a mechanical shock or anything like that. And...
Rog.
You may want to kick this next one around before you answer us on it and make sure you got all the details lined up. We'd like you to go through the procedure in as much detail as you can on the final docking, including the switch positions, talkback indications, the dynamics, the order of your contact with the - with the LM drogue, the plus-X thrusting, the barber poles, the bottle selection, and the actual probe retraction. I think you mentioned yesterday that you had a 3-second delay in probe retraction, and we'd like to know when that 3-second delay was measured, starting, that is, from throwing the switch or from some other event. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. I'll start off by saying that all the switches were per checklist. And, of course, those were one of the first things that we verified at - when the problem occurred, at your suggestion as well as our own. And - everything was normal up to the point where Stu made his first contact. I'll let him take it on in from there.
Okay, Bruce, why don't we just back up a little bit, and you - you asked for the specific one where we got the - the docking, but let's go back to the first one, and everything looked just real fine coming in on it. I'd say the - the whole docking operation was just so much like the CMS that it was hard to believe. I mean the - the procedures, and the view, and the response of the vehicle, and I'd say I had 2/10ths of a foot per second closing speed. And then, the reaction when I hit the drogue was just exactly like the - you know, the docking trainer that we had where you didn't hit the capture latches, but you just went in and banged into the drogue? [Long pause.]
Roger. The one over there in building 5?
Yeah. That's the exact response I got. On the first one, I - I clunked into it and - you know - and then I could tell that I was slipping out, and, of course, Al didn't call the barber pole. So, at that time, I did the natural thing and jabbed it with a little plus-X, and drove it into the drogue, and we were lined up good, holding plus-X and the - the alignment - you know - still good on the - on the target just like - you know - you can do in the docking trainer. Okay, and then I realized that it hadn't made contact, so I let her back off. At that time we called you, and I said, "Well, I'll try it again," and increased the velocity. And, on this one, I'm estimating that my contact velocity was about a foot per second. Now, it might have been a little less than that. As you know, a foot-per-second closing looks like you're going to run right through the thing, so - but I would - I've looked at a lot of these on the simulator and I'd say that probably the second one was right at a foot per second. And got the - got the same response - and I really can't remember whether that's the one where you told me to try plus-X after I hit or not. You know, I had already done that on the first one, but anyway, if this was the one, then I hit - you said, oh 3 seconds; I held 4, and no - no luck at all. We came back out. At that time, I suggested we fall back, regroup, and talk about it. And then, y'all pretty much know the story then. You suggested that we try it again with everything normal, and I guess the second time there was - I contacted and I - that was not the time I held the plus-X. It was the next one on your suggestion. Yeah, the second one I - I did it on my own and then you - on the third one you said, let's try a normal docking and hold 3 seconds, and I did that and held 4. And, also, it was after the second docking that I noticed the radial scratches and - and at that time, that's when I became convinced that from the action and then seeing the scratches, that the docking latches were not giving and were indeed locked, instead of the cocked position. Okay, so we went through that one as you suggested, and I held plus-X 4 seconds and - we're right in - right in the drogue - you know - holding steady. And then we came out and then down to - to the last time...
Stu?
I came in, I'd say probably about a tenth, maybe 0.15, in that area, two-tenths, maybe a little less, contacted it and, at contact, the - the attitude stayed fairly good. There was maybe a degree and a half, 2-degree pitchup movement on the COAS. I then applied the plus-X and held it. At that time, I put it in the center of the drogue, and the COAS and the reticle and the translation were all just looking real good, and so I gave the cue to Al to retract, and he hit the Retract switch at that point. And then I'll let him take it from there. [Long pause.]
Stu, before you press on, where in this sequence of dockings did you actuate the Extend/Release switch position again? Over.
Okay. It would be after the second attempt. We - It was per your suggestion - the ground suggestion, and we went through the extend/release - in through there - No, wait a minute, we tried it ourselves after the second one, didn't we? [Pause.] Okay, consensus here is, after the first one, we went back to Off and then back to Retract. And then after the second one, we went to Extend and then back to Retract. [Long pause.]
Okay, and did you do anything with the Extend/Retract switch after the last unsuccessful docking but prior to the final successful one? [Long pause.]
I don't think we did, Bruce. We did - We told you everything we did with that switch, after the [garble] first [garble] one time when I [garble] from Retract to Off and then back to Retract again.
Okay, now, in going through this sequence, did you ever move the docking probe retract, that is, the Bottle Select switch off of Primary 1; that is, did you recycle the switch or do anything in this sequence, or just leave it in that position once you'd initially selected it? [Pause.]
Well, we don't touch that switch until we get the capture latches. We stay to the Off position until...
Okay.
'Til we [garble].
Roger. Copy. Okay. So we're coming up on the final successful docking here, and you told us that you got this 1½, 2 degrees pitchup on the COAS that looked pretty good. You applied plus-X and held, and I think that's where I broke in. Go ahead. [Long pause.]
Okay, and then on the plus-X then that - that brought the - you know - the COAS right down and the alignment - then everything was fine and translation was - was real good all the way except - except like I say, for that - you know - small pitchup - a degree and half or whatever it was, right at contact as the - as the probe sliding into the drogue. [Long pause.]
Okay, and did you...
And when - when Stu called out Retract, I went to Retract position on Primary 1. And it looked pretty normal from there. Just long enough - to - for you - to say to yourself, "Well, it hasn't worked." And then it went barber pole and gray and simultaneously there we got the feeling that we'd hard docked. So it's probably about a 3-second time period from the time I went to Primary 1 until I had the barber pole, and approximately a second later after that, to gray and the hard dock. [Long pause.]
Okay. Stand by.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. Were you thrusting plus-X all the time from initial contact until the time that you got the hard docking? Over.
That's affirmative, Bruce. Once I got her in the drogue - you know, we'd talked among ourselves, and we told Al to hold off until I'm thrusting and I'm satisfied with the alignment. So when we made contact and I thrusted and it looked like we were - Everything was good, and I - I held a positive plus-X all the way until we got the - the latches.
Okay, now. From contact, when you started thrusting plus-X, did you feel anything after the initial contact that would indicate that you'd moved on in and seated the probe in the center of the drogue? Specifically, do you feel that at the time that you selected Retract, the probe head was in such a position in the drogue that you should have already been in a barber pole position on the talkbacks? Over.
Well, Bruce, the - the probe was obviously in the drogue, but - you know - there's no way of knowing. But the feeling among us here and - my feeling is that, no, I don't think we had capture latch lock until after we went to Primary. Now, I - You know; I'm sure y'all have looked at it and you've got people down there tearing the probe apart, but I don't even know if it's physically possible. But I don't feel that we had any capture latches in that hole until that last operation when we went to Primary and drove the beauty in there.
Okay. Do you feel like the - the probe head was in such a position - do you feel like the position of the probe head changed on you any after you went to Primary?
No. No, I was watching the - the LM - I was plus-X-ing and Al called "Primary," and we started closing on it and there was no movement; no. [Long pause.]
Okay. We copy. No movement after - after you started the plus-X and got yourself seated in there until such time as the bottle fired; that is, no - no more closing movement. Is that correct?
That's affirmative. As far as I can - you know - tell, we were there, thrusting, holding steady - Okay, do you read me, Bruce?
Roger. Reading you loud and clear, Stu.
Okay. And - you know, we got - We're sitting steady in the drogue, plus-X, everything looking fine. We hit the Retract switch and we start moving together. I didn't hear anything nor see any action until we heard the latches close.
Roger. But while you were sitting there then - the talkback was gray and then 3 seconds after you went to Primary, approximately, it went barber pole and the nominal sequence started.
Well, I was looking at the talkbacks, and that's about the only thing we saw as we pointed out before. About 3 seconds after the initiation of the primary contact - of the Primary Retract switch to the 1 - number 1 position, they went barber pole for perhaps a quarter or a half a second and then went gray simultaneously with the hard dock. [Pause.]
Roger. [Pause.]
Hey, Bruce?
Go ahead, Stu.
Okay. And on that one, we've sort of hassled this out. I guess it's something we need - We're probably going to get to, but we - Yesterday, you know, we called it a ripple fire and we felt like we had them all, which we did; but it really felt like the - the latches - we got a couple or, you know, it's hard to say how many; but we got some latches and then at some discrete time, maybe a quarter of a second or something like that; then we got the rest of them in a ripple. So, I think we got the docking latches in two distinct times, separated by, you know, a very small amount. But at least it was enough to say it was not one continuous ripple fire.
Okay, Stu. We copy that and I guess one last point on this - this final docking sequence. Did the closure of the two vehicles start when you selected Primary and continue for some period of time with the barber pole indication appearing during this period of closure, or did the flash to barber pole and then back coincide with the beginning of the closure for hard docking? [Pause.]
Hey, let us talk about that one for a second, Bruce.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Bruce, let me give you my opinion from the right seat. We're coordinated, I think, on the way this happened. I saw us move in as in previous attempts. We hit, moved just a little bit to improve alignment as the drogue forced the probe toward the center, and we started to bounce - it looked like we bounced - started to bounce back out. Stu hit the plus-X thrust and held it for what appeared to be right in the middle of the drogue with thrust. He called the Retract. Al hit the Retract, and a moment after that, it seemed like we started to move together. Al then called barber pole, called gray, and we were moving together continuously during this time; and then I heard the - the fire go off on the - the latches making.
Okay. We copy that, Ed. Thank you.
No. We did not [Answering Al or Stu]. [Pause.]
And I wonder if you could comment on the thrusting activity immediately after contact for each docking.
Okay. As I said on the first one, I - was going along...
I think we're referring - We're referring more to the nature of stable - attitude control or stabilization thrusting other than the plus-X. I think you've pretty well covered the plus-X for us.
Oh, that's the only thrusting I did. That's all it took to - to align it. I did no other movements either with the RHC or the THC after contact except plus-X.
Okay. We copy that.
Bruce, the probe was sufficiently close to the center of the drogue on each of those contacts. I believe that the marks that we pointed out to you on television yesterday represent the initial contact of the probe. It could not have been more than an inch and a half or 2 inches from the center of the drogue at that time on any of the contacts.
All right. It looks like Stu was right in there in the center from what we could see on the - the TV last night on those contacts.
That's affirmative. It looked the same way out the right window.
14, this is Houston. In the process of making the docking yesterday, we advised you to check some circuit breakers, which you did. Did you at any time cycle any of these circuit breakers, that is, open and then reclose them? Over. [Pause.]
Okay. All we did was check them. That's the group 4 and the docking probe circuit breakers. I just checked them, you know, by pushing on them; but, no, we did not pull any and then push them back in.
Okay. We copy. And that about winds up our queries on the docking-probe situation. We'll be ready to go on the - the launch-vehicle debrief here in a minute or so. [Pause.]
Okay, Bruce.
Okay.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. Last night on the docking probe removal, after you took the preload off the probe, could you tell whether the probe head was, in fact, locked into the drogue at that time or not? [Long pause.]
No - I - It - it - it appeared to be, Bruce. I took the preload off. In fact, I think Al made that question and we both looked up around at the probe head to see if we could see anything that looked unusual about it or whether it looked like it was out or anything, and - and it did not. Everything looked - looked normal. [Long pause.]
Could you - could you feel and tell whether the head of the probe was locked into the drogue or not? [Pause.]
No. I guess the answer to that would be we don't know. [Long pause.]
But now, I guess as you've realized, after I collapsed the - the probe, it definitely was.
Okay. You say after you collapsed the probe, the head of the thing was definitely locked in there?
Yeah. It was hanging in there and I had to apply a little tug to - to get it out. I went right by the decal on the checklist, and I think you asked at that time about the force that it took to bring it out; and it appeared, you know, reasonably normal for the first time that I had done it in - in zero-g. It didn't appear to be anything funny about it. [Pause.]
Bruce, let's make it clear. There is no question about the capture latches being through the drogue. But the question of whether they were locked or not is the one we don't know the answer to.
Right. That, of course, is the question that we were trying to get out here just now.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. At GET of 28 hours and 30 minutes, you are approximately 1,180 nautical miles. That's 1 1 8 0 nautical miles away from the S-IVB. If you'd care to look for it, we suggest you use a P52 program with a star code of zero and load the - the following numbers in Noun 88, if you're ready to copy.
Go ahead.
Roger. Noun 88 values are 1, minus 31505, minus 87189, minus 37491. Read back. Over.
Okay. We'll plug in minus 31505, minus 87189, minus 37491.
Roger. Your readback's correct and we'll probably, at the end of the launch vehicle systems debriefing here, have some more numbers for you if you want to - if you don't acquire on this first pass.
Okay.
And we're ready to press on with the debriefing. If you've got your Flight Plan handy, you can just proceed down through the questions, and we'll interrupt if we find anything that's unclear or, if you prefer, I can ask them to you in a panel discussion-type thing and you can answer back. Over. [Pause.]
We'll go ahead with the [garble] questions in the Flight Plan. Stand by 1 minute.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston. On question number 1, regarding significant changes in the noise level, the only change in noise level that we noticed was during the first part of the launch on the S-IC, when we had the initial noise of ignition and the buildup in noise during Max Q. And, of course, the associated... [Pause.]
14, Houston. I think we're coming up on an antenna switchover for you. You seem to be fading down into the mud.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Are you reading, now, Houston?
Okay. We're reading you better signal strengthwise, Al. We still seem to be getting a little bit of breakup from your comm carrier. Can you reposition the mike? See if that helps any.
Okay. I have the mike right in front of my mouth right now. Is that better?
Roger. [Pause.] I think we better take it from the top again.
Okay, from the top. The only significant change in noise level we noticed was, as mentioned, due to the burning of the engine in the atmosphere, that is, the ignition, of course, a buildup of noise there. And the noise level increased through Max Q, and then a drop off. Other than that, with respect to - to the noise itself, we had no problems at all in our communications at any time during the stages of the flight. Does that satisfy everybody on question number 1?
That's affirmative. Press on. [Pause.]
Okay. Number 2. On the S-IC, we noticed no significant changes in noise level and vibration, other than what we just discussed. S-IC we felt was a real fine ride, nothing unexpected. The S-II, we noticed a change in vibration, a sort of a slight pogo, which started at 8 plus 40. Nothing of really any great magnitude. And on the S-IVB to orbit burn, we noticed no significant changes in the noise and vibration level. We noticed nothing unusual on S-IVB during TLI ignition. However, we did notice the beginning of a slight hum, low hum, or buzz toward the end of the TLI burn. That's it for number 2. Do you have any questions there? [Long pause.]
We have no questions right now on that, Al. We're closing our loop down here with the Huntsville Operations Support Center, so it takes us a - a few seconds to a minute or so to get a response back. Why don't you press on with the question number 3? If we get any queries, why, we'll reopen the previous ones.
Okay. On number 3, nothing unexpected in the way of transients that - on which we had not been briefed. As a matter of fact, it went pretty much according to the way we had expected it through all the events mentioned in question 3, that is, ignition and staging, engine shutdown, mixture ratios, and so on. We did experience a little more abruptness with the cut-off of S-II. The S-II SECO, I think, we [garble] a little more than we expected. Otherwise, everything was pretty much the way we'd kind of planned them. Question 3.
Roger. Question 4.
Okay. Stu is ready for you on question 4.
Okay, Bruce. I got a good look at that shroud, of course, station keeping with the S-IVB, and you couldn't see all of it; but, as we moved around, you could see a good portion of it back around behind the - the LM and every place that I could see and Ed also and Al - Al was looking through the hatch window part of the time, and everything looked just tight as a drum. We saw no loose pieces of the shroud anywhere. Nothing out of the ordinary, and after Sep - as the - I mean after ejection and the booster came into view - came into my window pretty much of a head-on view, and we were out a little ways, but there was no - no visible damage at all to the shroud at any time. And, like I say, I think we got a real good look at it the time we spent around it.
Roger. We copy.
Okay. Going on to - going on to number 5. We experienced good communications throughout the entire powered flight and launch. We've been able to hear the ground on all the calls, and we had no comm problems at all.
Roger.
[Under McCandless] How about you, Jim? Any comm problems from us?
How about you, Jim? Any comm problems from us?
Negative. We experienced no comm problems. [Pause]
Okay, question number 6. Was there visible venting? Stu, do you want to take over, now?
Okay. We didn't see any - anything unusual other than those that you called; and when you called the venting while we were station keeping, well, of course, it came on, rather beautiful sight. And the only other thing was when you gave a mark for the APS evasive burn, why, I noticed the booster venting and it appeared to be the same area as it had been venting during the station keeping phase; and the answer came back that that was expected, and so forth; and that was the only thing out of the ordinary. Other than that, everything was fine and all the other vents you called. [Pause.]
Okay, on to number 7. And I guess that one may still be open.
Yes, I was just trying to whip off a fast answer for you on that one, but we don't have any. So I guess that Al will tell you the last time that we - we saw it.
Well, I guess the last time we saw the S-IVB was with the eyeball, naked that is, and it was during the propulsion venting. It was kind of a tough angle for us to see because of - it was just very low on the edge of the window number 1. However, the Sun angle on it was good; it was stable when it was venting, as near as I could tell, approximately, a couple of miles away. We took a few pictures of it with the Hasselblad, so we may be able to see the beautiful conical-shaped pattern coming from the venting; but as far as control was concerned, it was going in the right direction and appeared to be stable.
Roger. We copy. [Long pause.]
Okay, number 8. Stu, you want to take that one?
Okay, I guess the guidance obviously was good and the velocity was - was real fine. It looked like, during the - during the boost phase, they were running a - maybe 2, 2½ miles, maybe 3 miles low along my profile, looked rather consistent; but we obviously arrived at the right place, so the - and the velocity cut-offs were right on the money and the TLI guidance, I think, was within 10 feet, 17, or something like that. You've got the numbers, but it looked real good, and the only thing I can comment there was it looked to me like we were going into Earth orbit insertion maybe a couple or 3 low, pretty much on the profile.
Roger.
All the way on the profile I should say. [Pause.]
Okay, are you ready for number 9?
Roger. Go ahead with number 9.
Okay. The ORDEAL ball at ignition was as advertised at 8 and a half degrees. After ignition, went to the normal pitchdown, the ball settled down very close to zero; and, as the burn progressed, eased on up to about a plus-1 degree; then, slowly on back to zero; then, close to the pitchdown, just prior to - to the cut-off, and I would say somewhere around 2 or 3 degrees negative, that is at 357 and 358 on the ball, prior to cut-off. [Pause.]
Okay, and we've got one more write-in, Question number 10; and it's based on...
Okay, I'll take that one, Bruce.
Okay.
Okay, Bruce. That - that came from my comment. And as we were station keeping and watching the venting, it looked to me like the booster had picked up a little right yaw as - as I looked at it. I meant - moving left on me, but then I just mentioned, it looked like it was moving over a little; but then, later on, I decided that that was just the scatter of the two vehicle's deadbands because the IU - the S-IVB deadband all the time was solid as a rock, even during the venting. And after all that venting, when I went back to - to try the other dockings, I expected to have to change my attitude a little bit. And as it turned out, the attitude was still - you know - right within a degree, so that was just a call that appeared to, at that time. But the S-IVB vented from both sides and it was steady. And I think I was just picking up the movement of the deadbands of the two vehicles.
Okay, Stu; thank you.
Rog. [Pause.]
And while the Huntsville people are closing the loop here, we had previously given you a Flight Plan update concerning your waste water dump at 30 hours plus 15 minutes, and our update was that you dump to zero percent. We'd like now to modify that to a nominal dump to 25 percent on the waste water. Over.
Okay, we are now modified; 25 percent it shall be.
Roger; out.
Could you tell me about Al's comm? You mentioned some dropouts in EKG prior to launch. Apparently you're still not seeing those. Are they in any way associated with these voice dropouts you talked about today? [Pause.]
14, this is Houston. Our belief is that there's no correlation at the present time between your earlier EKG problems and the current degraded comm through Al's comm carrier. We would like to suggest when you have the chance that Al try using the spare comm carrier, and see if that improves communications.
Okay, we'll shift over.
14, this is Houston. We've received some inquiries regarding your answer to question number 2. The Huntsville Operations people would like to get a little more detail on the slight hum or buzz. Was it actually an acoustic or audible noise, or was it felt through the structure of the spacecraft, and can you give us approximately the time that it commenced and duration, that is, did it proceed until TLI cut-off? [Long pause.]
Stand by 1, Houston.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, Bruce. I think the noise is kind of hard to describe, I guess, and maybe make ourselves clear, but it definitely was not an acoustic buzz. It was a high frequency buzz that we felt through the structure; and, I'd say, it probably started - and this is an approximation - say 2 minutes into the TLI burn.
Okay. And continued through the balance of the burn?
Pretty much so, yes. Just about the same level. I wouldn't say that it increased any significant amount.
I realize this is sort of hard to put your finger on. Is there any way you can quantify the level, or give us some feeling for how much of - how high the level was? [Long pause.]
No. No, I think that's pretty tough, Bruce. In fact, you know - the - the burn was going so well and the ride was so smooth that - you know we - we had time to - to pick it up. I suspect that, you know, it was low enough level that if you had something else on your mind, you wouldn't even have noticed it.
Did this - did this just sort of start abruptly, or build up from the background, do you think?
Well, Ed feels it was a buildup and I'm not sure. So let's vote that it was a buildup then. That seems to be a majority. And it just came on kind of slow and came up and stayed at low level and - and was there.
Okay. And the only other question we got back in is at 8 plus 40, this pogo-type thing that you mentioned was - Could you give us a little more detail on direction of motion of it and amplitude. Any more elaboration you have on that would be appreciated.
Okay. I guess I called out the time on that one in the cockpit. I - It was no doubt but what it was a slight pogo and I think it was longitudinal; and as far as amplitude, I'm trying to think back to some of those pogo tests I rode on the shake table, but they were of such high level that I wouldn't - couldn't compare them to this. But, it was a pogo; it started to slip out that time because when I - when I felt it, I looked at the clock and it was not of... [Long pause.]
14, Houston. We had an antenna changeover here and... [Long pause.]
14, Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
14, Houston. How do you read? [Long pause.]
Okay. How do you read, Bruce?
Loud and clear, Stu. How do you read me?
Oh, you're 5 square. The static's died down, and - As I was saying, there was no question but what it was a low amplitude pogo starting right at 8 plus 40. However, the magnitude was low enough that it was not affected - did not affect any of our voices; and, you know, a fairly low level will - will do that, so I'd - I'd say, you know, it was pretty small. It was not of any concern, but picked it up just because - you know - thinking about pogo, I guess. [Long pause.]
Roger. Thank you. [Pause.]
And, Stu, did that last all the way until shutdown of the S-II, or did it die back out? [Long pause.]
Bruce, I can't give you a positive answer; none of us can. My impression is it was there all the way, but that data really isn't a very good input.
Okay. Thank you. I believe this concludes our discussion on the booster questions.
Okay.
14, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. Just a little status on the probe situation. We have no further queries on the docking probe at this time. The conclusions of our ground analysis are that the system is now working nominally. And our current intention is that you'll be Go for the lunar landing and all subsequent events. If we have any further commentary or further discussion on the subject, why, we'll get back to you later on it. With respect to midcourse correction number 2, we plan for that to take place at the nominal time which is about 30 hours, 36 minutes GET. And it'll be about 71 feet per second, which is also close to nominal. We're planning a GET update of some 40 minutes tomorrow at the nominal time in the Flight Plan of about 54:40. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. We got that, Bruce, and are we going to leave this Earth dark-side dim-light photography in?
That's affirmative, Stu.
Okay.
Houston, that is Al. I've changed the TCU heads. How does this sound, any better?
Would you give us a short count on that, Al?
Okay. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Over.
Roger. That sounds a lot better to me.
Okay. We'll take mine and make it the spare.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Are you - Al, are you using the lightweight comm carrier now or the Snoopy hat?
Using the lightweight at the moment.
Roger. Thank you.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay. The Delta-V check went fine. And the - on the null bias check, we had a minus 100 to start, minus 99.6 at the end.
Minus 100 and minus 99.6. And I have your midcourse correction 2 PAD here, whenever you're ready to copy.
Okay. Stand by 1. [Long pause.]
Okay, Bruce. [Garble] I'm ready to copy. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 14. Ready to copy the MCC-2 PAD.
Go ahead - 14, this is Houston with the midcourse correction 2 PAD. SPS/G&N burn: 64213, plus 1.02, minus 0.23; TIG 030:36:07.01; minus 0025.9, plus 0004.4, plus 0066.4; roll, 282; pitch, 354; 298; Noun 44, N/A; Delta-V total, 0071.4; 0:10; 0066.5; 25; 278.5; 39.0. The balance of the PAD is N/A. GDC align, Sirius and Rigel; roll align 230, 170, 002; no ullage. In the burn attitude, S-Band High Gain Antenna pointing angles: Pitch, minus 22; Yaw, 0; Wide Beam, Manual mode; LM weight, 33647. Your burn time to the nearest tenth of a second is 10.3 seconds for use in checking ball valve operation. Over.
Okay. I read back MCC-2 SPS/G&N: 64213, plus 1.02, minus 0.23; 030:36:07.01; minus 0025.9, plus 0004.4, plus 0066.4; 282, 354, 298; N/A; 0071.4; 0:10; 0066.5; 25; 278.5; 39.0. The rest N/A; Sirius and Rigel; 230, 170, 002; no ullage; High Gain Antenna in the burn attitude; Pitch, minus 22; Yaw, 0; Wide Beam and Manual; LM weight, 33647; burn time, 10 - 10.3.
Roger, Houston. Readback correct.
Thank you. [Long pause.]
14, Houston. We've had a correction to the Yaw angle for the S-band pointing. That should be plus 8 degrees. Over.
Roger. The S-band pointing is Pitch, minus 22; Yaw, plus 8.
Roger; out.
Roger. We have them, 14.
Okay, and they were torqued at 29 plus 20.
Roger.
Apollo 14, this is Houston.
Go ahead.
At your convenience, we'd like P00 and Accept and we'll uplink you a new state vector, target load, and the PIPA and IRIG bias updates. Over. [Pause.]
Okay. You have it, Houston.
Roger. They're on their way. And at the same time, we'd like to give you one minor Flight Plan update. Due to your later lift-off time, on page 3-32, the Flight Plan, 'Darkside Dim Light Photography,' we have a new value of longitude over 2 for you. [Long pause.]
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. The old value is minus 42.500; new value, minus 47.500. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. Longitude over 2 is now minus 47.500.
Roger. And I've been asked to remind you that, in connection with the midcourse burn number 2, if there is stratification in the oxygen tanks, you may get a Cryo Low Press light as this is reduced. Over.
Roger.
14, Houston. Your computer.
Houston, 14. Have you finished with the uplink?
14, affirmative. How are you reading us now? We passed up 'computer's yours.'
Okay, I guess we must have missed it during the [garble] and we're terminating PTC here in about 2 minutes.
Roger. Out. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
We're seeing Noun 81's Delta-V by 1/10th different from the PAD. Which is correct?
Apollo 14, Houston. We understand the onboard value is correct, and - that's an R2 that you're concerned about?
Yeah. We've never seen Noun 81s round off like that.
Okay. We'll have an explanation for you in a second.
Okay.
Houston - Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. On your query on Noun 81, 4.3 is the number that was actually uplinked to the spacecraft. There is no problem involved with the spacecraft rounding off numbers or anything of that sort. The maneuver that was passed to you on the maneuver PAD was generated from one computer reading a 4.35 which was rounded upwards by the FIDO to 4.4. A separate computer processed the information leading to the automatic uplink, and they rounded down to 4.3. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. Those computers ought to talk to each other.
Roger. Out.
That's kind of wild, isn't it? Noun 20 Enter. 281.2, 353, and 297.5. Okay. There's an Enter. Computer's yours, Leader.
[Garble] Okay, it's star 25.
Okay [garble]...
14, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, Stu. We're looking at your DSKY display here and - noticed it was a little, different from the PAD burn attitudes. We believe that if you go back and reload Noun 48 with the pitch and yaw trim values that we sent up on the PAD, which are for the combination CSM/LM, and then redo P40, you'll get better agreement with the PAD values for attitude.
Okay.
14, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Hous - Houston.
Roger. You can go ahead and terminate charging on battery Alpha at this time.
Okay. [Long pause.]
14 to Houston. We're in position, standing by for a Go for MCC-2 burn.
Roger; you are Go.
[Garble].
[Garble] and we have AC/DC, Direct. We have CMC Auto. We are Att 1/Rate 2. We have A, On. We are Rate Command. We are Auto. We're sitting at Attitude. We're sitting at trim.
Okay, Gordon, looks like we've got the High Gain.
At 35, DSKY blanks.
Okay, DSKY's on time.
EMS, normal.
EMS is normal. Check the PIPAs.
[Garble].
Twenty seconds.
PIPAs are good. No ullage.
No ullage.
Counting. How much?
Ten.
Okay.
Count it down, Al.
5, Pro, 3, 2, 1...
Zero.
'A' system?
'B'.
'B'.
PC...
5, 4, 3, 2, 1...
Zero. There it is.
Enter. G&N Shutdown.
All right, good.
All righty, we've had shutdown, Delta-V Thrust, two, Off; verify our gimbal motors coming off.
I wonder if those were stowed right (laughter). Okay, you ready, number 2?
Yes.
Yaw 2, Off?
You've got it.
Pitch 2, Off.
Okay.
Yaw 1, Off?
You've got it.
Pitch 1, Off.
You've got it.
Okay.
Bus Ties coming off.
Okay, you want to bring Off your TVC Servo Powers.
TVC Servo Powers, Off.
Okay, and - [garble].
Okay.
Main Bus Ties are Off.
Main Bus Tie, Off. Let's go to 60 85, and what are our trim rules?
Okay.
[Garble].
Okay, Houston. That was a mighty good burn there. The residuals - There'll be no trim required.
Roger. Out. [Long pause.]
[Garble] Delta-VC...
Okay, you got minus 4.1, [garble] off.
Okay. [garble].
Direct, two, Off.
Okay, open the Ullage, two, circuit breakers.
They're open.
And [garble].
Okay, Pitch 1 and Yaw 1.
Rate 2 and PCM Bit Rate, Low.
How about a boot in the ass, huh?
That was pretty nice.
Man, TEI is going to be a kick in the butt.
Probably [garble].
Okay, [garble]...
14, for your information, we showed the actual burn time to be 10.0 seconds. Over. [Long pause.]
Hey, Bruce, that was really great. The CMS was never like that.
Roger.
Houston. At the end of the burn we're showing fuel, 002; oxidizer, 989; unbalance, 300 decrease.
Okay. Understand. Fuel...
And Delta-VC - [Pause.]
And, Bruce, Delta-VC, minus 4.1.
Okay. Delta-VC, minus 4.1; fuel, 100.2; oxidizer, 98.9; and unbalance is 300 decrease. Is that correct?
That's affirmative.
And if you didn't get the residuals, they're plus 0.2, minus 0, and minus 0.1.
Roger. We copy.
14, this is Houston. We've reviewed the chamber pressure and the SPS engine operation from this last midcourse on the strip charts, and it looks real fine. We'll have some more words for you - for you - later on the reconciliation of the burn times in tenths of seconds. We're curious as to what value you got with your stopwatch. Over.
I showed about 10.2, Bruce.
Understand, 10.2. Over.
That's affirm.
Hey, Bruce. What do the strip charts show us PC, two banks? [Pause.]
We're going to have to convert from percentage of thrust to PSI, Stu. We'll be right at you.
Oh, no sweat. Don't want to cause you any trouble. I was just curious.
They're doing it anyway. Just, we hadn't gotten it accomplished for this burn yet.
Okay. Just wanted to calibrate my gauge.
You might check your middle gimbal angle, Stu, for the maneuvering.
Rog. We - we're eyeballing it.
14, this is Houston. For your information, when starting the PTC spinup, we'll use quads Alpha and Delta. Over.
Okay. We'll use Alpha and Delta for the spinup.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Your average chamber pressure for this last burn was 100 psi even.
Okay, the average was 100 even. Thank you.
Roger. Out.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, Bruce. I tell you, I'm sure not seeing what I expected to on this - dark side of the Earth through the sextant here. The angles that - that you gave me lined up the - the optics pretty much over on the edge of the dark side all right. But through the - through the sextant, there's still a lot of light coming in, and I - with that high-speed black and white, I don't see why we're not going to wipe it out. I - I guess I really expected to see pretty much darkness through the sextant here. [Pause.]
Okay. Stand by.
Okay. And there's another strange thing on the sextant on this sighting, Bruce. We got a...
Stand by.
Okay.
14, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We've been advised that there was some illuminated area of the Earth expected to be visible in the field of view for this dim-light photography. What we'd like you to do is to go ahead using the nominal angles; take your three exposures; and then, if it's agreeable to you, we'll have a new set of shaft and trunnion angles for you and you could squeeze off three more. Over.
Okay. No sweat. I'll press ahead and take some photos.
Roger. Press on. [Long pause.]
14, Houston. In your original transmission, did you say that you could see any of the illuminated portion of the Earth through the sextant eyepiece or just that you had some scattered light coming in? Over.
I've got quite a bit of scattered light. It's negative on seeing any of the - of the lit portion. I - Manually, you know, I've driven it over to the terminator and then the CMC pulls it back to the dark side. We're pointed on the dark side, but there sure is a lot of light showing.
Okay. We copy.
14, Houston. Have you already mounted the camera on the sextant adapter? - or to the sextant?
That's affirmative, Bruce. I'm in the middle of the first frame right now, but it's no sweat to change. I can do anything you want.
No, no. Don't do that, because we'd have to squeeze off more film at that 24 frame per second prior to dismounting it.
Okay.
Okay, Bruce. I've finished the - the 1-minute, the 20-second, 5-second exposures, and I'll just hold here until you give me some more angles if that's what you want.
Okay, Stu. What we'd like you to do is in your longitude over 2 for a P22, just put in minus 42.5, which was the - the value that was originally in the Flight Plan before we updated you and run three more exposures and that will wind it up. [Long pause.]
Okay. We'll enter that in long-over-2 like it was originally in the Flight Plan and repeat.
Roger. Out.
Okay, Bruce. I completed the - the pictures. I put the sextant back on and looked at our second one and it's - it's going to be just about the same.
Roger, Stu. I think that wraps up the requirements for the dim-light photography.
Rog.
And just to clear up the situation that I created on giving you a quad Alpha Delta. We are recommending Alpha and Charlie for the PTC spinup and your option on the quads that you used for rate damping.
Okay. We figured that's what you meant.
