Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston. Go ahead, Houston.
14, Houston. You can secure the High Gain Antenna at this time. We recommend a Pitch of minus 5...
Go ahead, Bruce.
We recommend a pitch of minus 52 degrees, yaw of 270 for securing the High Gain Antenna. Request Omni Bravo for PTC. Over. [Long pause.]
Houston, this is Apollo 14. We're reading you loud and clear. Go ahead.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. You may secure the High Gain Antenna now. Pitch, minus 52; Yaw, 270. Request Omni Bravo for PTC. Over.
Houston, 14. That's what you have.
Roger.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Stand by for an important announcement. [Pause.]
Rog. Standing by.
Roger. You're Go for PTC spinup now. [Pause.]
What would we do without you, Bruce? [Long pause.]
Hey, Bruce. How come we haven't heard any news, like who won at Daytona and things like that?
Well, we tried for one news summary and most of the news came out to be on the subject of Apollo 14. We figured you guys were probably the ones that had the inside scoop on that, so we'll give a stab at another one.
Yeah. Tell us what's going on at the races at Daytona.
Okay. Give us a couple of minutes and we'll have some word for you.
Oh, no sweat. Just at your convenience.
Apollo 14, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Houston. [Pause.]
If the workload isn't too heavy up there for you, we've got another set of Noun 88 values for sighting on the S-IVB, if you're interested.
Okay, stand by and I'll copy them down. [Long pause.]
Okay, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger, 14. Noun 88: minus 34293, minus 85901, minus 38013. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, Bruce, you back with us?
Yeah, I'm still with you. [Pause.]
14, Houston. How do you read?
Hello, Houston. How do you read? 14.
14, we're approaching an antenna switchover period here. Let me give you a call again in a minute. [Long pause.]
Hello, Houston. How do you read 14?
14, Houston. Loud and clear. How me? Over.
We're back with you. How about giving me R3 again, please?
Okay, R3 is minus 38013. Read back. Over.
Okay; reading you back from Noun 88: minus 34293, minus 85901, minus 38013.
Roger; readback correct. These are calculated for a GET of 32 hours, 45 minutes; but should be valid from the present up through about 33:45. You will be able to see the S-IVB when your spacecraft roll angle is between 85 degrees, that's 085 degrees and 020 degrees. If you do see it through the sextant, we'd like you to try to take some pictures, using the same techniques as on the dim-light photography per camera advance, same film magazine, the same exposure times, if you concur. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay, sounds great. I understand this is set up for a time of 32 plus 45:00, however, it ought to be good now and we ought to be able to hack it when our roll is between 085 to 020. And if we lap the big moose, we'll take some pictures of it using the same magazine and the same procedures as the Earth dim light that we just finished. [Long pause.]
Roger; Roger.
14, this is Houston. Be advised that the S-IVB is tumbling at a rate of one tumble - that is, one 360-degree tumble - about every 4 and a half minutes, so that the intensity of the object may vary if you see it out there. And even if you don't, we've been considering the speed of the film. We'd like to take same pictures. Perhaps it would show up on photography if you can't see it with the naked eye. And another item, your phase plane plot for PTC - It looks like you've established a very good PTC here. It's curving back around toward the center. We think it's going to hold for quite some time. And we'd like to get battery Alpha on charge at your convenience. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, Bruce; copy that. When we get around to the right roll angle, we'll give a Go on the S-IVB. Copy about the PTC, and we'll start a charge.
Roger.
Do you see anything out there, Stu?
Well, we're just now coming out from behind the LM. Looks like I've got something here in the sextant. Let me pull her in the center and see what it looks like. [Long pause.]
Well, Bruce, I've got two things in the sextant and - You know, it could either be a faint - faint star - I don't see any - any tumbling on them yet, but 4 and a half minutes isn't that fast either.
Roger. We copy. [Long pause.]
Okay, I've lost one of them due to the light coming into the sextant. And I'm about to lose - lose the other object, whatever it was.
And 14, Houston. We got a little sports news for you.
Okay, go ahead. You're just in time for dinner.
Would you rather I croon something soothing to you, like background music, or Ravel's Bolero or something?
Negative on the music. We got all that we need here. You can just croon some good sport news.
Why don't you hold on a minute and let Ed get his headset on?
(Laughter) It's not that detailed.
Okay, Houston. Everybody's on the line.
Okay, I don't know if it was really all that Earthshaking. I've got the results of the Daytona races. It was won by Pedro Rodriguez from Mexico with his partner Jackie Oliver in a Porsche, and they completed 688 laps of the 3.81-mile course there at Daytona in 24 hours. Ronnie Bucknum and Tony Adamowicz were second in a Ferrari, and Lamak Donohue-David Hobbs team was third. In winning the event, Rodriguez and Oliver averaged over 109 miles per hour for the 24-hour period. And Sunday's Andy Williams, San Diego Open Golf Tournament, Californian George Archer took the honors with a 7-under-par score against his closest competitors, Dave Eichelberger and Jack Nicklaus. Archer ended up with a 65 and $30,000 in prize money. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, very good. Thank you. Keep up the good news.
Roger. You can tell Ed to take his headset back off now.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We took up a collection here in the Control Room and bought a newspaper, and we got a couple more items, if you're interested.
Great. Take up another collection and you might buy two.
Oh, we'll buy you a morning paper, too, a little later. On the Daytona race, a few more details. Reading into the article, Rodriguez and Oliver divided the driving chores up about equally ...
Bruce, hold up just a second.
Hold it a second.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, Bruce. Everyone's on the net now. Proceed.
Okay. Stand by. [Long pause.]
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. Back in the Daytona, it says that Rodriguez and Oliver divided...
14, Houston. How do you read now? [Long pause.]
Apollo 14, Houston. How do you read now?
Loud and clear, Bruce. Go ahead.
Okay. Let me try it once more with vigor. Back in the Daytona Race, Rodriguez and Oliver divided up the driving chores about equally, and had built up a lead of 213 miles at one point in the race. But trouble struck with about 3 hours left when the car's transmission failed as Oliver was motoring around with not a care in the world. Two Ferraris - the one driven alternately by Bucknum and Tony Adamowicz of Wilton, Connecticut, and another under command of two-time U.S. road racing champion Mark Donohue and David Gobbs of England had survived the long night but were out of it as long as the Porsche held together. Oliver brought the powder-blue car into the pit, and he and Rodriguez spent an agonizing 93 minutes watching their lead wiped out as crewmen feverishly made repairs. Bucknum gained the lead 70 minutes from the end and Donohue pulled into striking distance before crew chief John Wyer could get the Porsche rolling again. Rodriguez bolted back to the course a half mile behind Bucknum, whose Ferrari was spitting fire and having trouble getting through the turns. The Mexican hotshot needed less than two laps around the 3.81-mile layout to catch Bucknum and was never in serious trouble again. [Pause.]
Damn. That's a - That's a good summary, Bruce.
Yeah. I ought to be a sportswriter. [Long pause.]
And that was very interesting, Bruce. And the next item here is a headline that says 'Apollo number 4900 to orbit the Earth. [Pause.]
(Laughter)
'The Aerospace Defense Command has entered Apollo 14 as number 4900 in its records of Earth orbiting satellites. The ADC, housed inside Cheyenne Mountain, is providing NASA with information on satellites passing near Apollo 14 during its journey to the Moon.' Just thought you might be interested in that.
Well, they say always better late than...
As I live and breathe, it's Fred-ly! (Laughter)
It's better to be number 4900 than not to be at all (laughter). And, meanwhile, today at New York, "The doors of baseball's Hall of Fame swung open for seven old timers elected by a veterans' committee after the regular ballot of the Baseball Writers Association of America had failed to name any moderns to the shrine. Legendary pitcher Rube Marquard, who shares the record of 19 consecutive victories in a single season, and George M. Weiss, the executive genius who built the New York Yankees into an awesome powerhouse from the late 1940's, led the advance of the old timers. Also named were outfielders Harry Hooper, Joe Kelley, and Chick Hafey, first baseman Jake Beckley, and shortstop Dave Bancroft. Marquard, who won 201 games pitching mostly for the New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers from 1908 to 1925; Hooper, who hit 281 in 16 American League seasons; and Kelley and Beckley, both pre-1900 stars, were named as 'real old timers' whose careers ended by 1925." [Pause.]
And here's another startling bit of news - from London. The headline says, "Subway riders arrive; can't get out of station." "More than a dozen passengers were trapped in a London subway station for more than an hour early today when the staff locked up and went home." That sound familiar? "When the passengers got off the last train on the Bakerloo line, at the Maida Vale station in Paddington, they found exits blocked by steel shutters and the station deserted. Police were called and they in turn contacted London subway officials. A spokesman for the London Transport said it would investigate the incident. London Subway Service shuts down from about midnight to 5 AM." [Long pause.]
Could happen to anyone, anyplace.
Also in the news is this other item from London. That D-day is less than 2 weeks away. They're referring here to the day when England changes to decimalized currency. "A government agency coordinating the switch says everything is going smoothly. 'Our latest survey has shown that since November there has been an incredible improvement in the extent to which people are familiar with the decimal equivalents,' a Decimal Currency Board spokesman said Sunday. On February 15, the new pound, worth $2.40, officially will become worth 100 new pence." [Pause.]
And the next on the agenda here. "Vehicles are called the top noisemaker." Dateline is from Paris. "Motor vehicles are the chief source of city noise, and only governments can do anything about it. This opinion is the result of a 2-year study by the consultive group on transportation research of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development." Incredible! (Laughter) "This problem is worldwide." [Pause.]
Seems like you two have a good handle on world events, important world events.
From Lourenco Marques, Mozambique, this item. "Fresh floodwaters have poured into Portuguese East Africa's cyclone-stricken lowlands today, hampering rescue efforts for thousands of flood victims already marooned 4 days. The central government said 135,000 persons lived in the worst-affected area around Quelimane, administrative capital of the central Zambesia province. Only 24,000 people have been rescued, but Zambesia Governor Lieutenant Gen - Lieutenant Colonel David Ferreira declined to estimate the death toll." Good night, Fred.
Very good. Good night, Bruce.
Tremendous! [Pause.]
Very nicely done. Very nicely done.
We had to censor the best parts.
Say again.
We had to censor the best parts.
That's too bad.
There will be a daily showing, I assume.
Oh, we'll see what we can do.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Hey, Bruce. I'm going to take some pictures of this S-IVB area this time around. Do you want me to have the two strips at 24 frames per second for 2 seconds and everything just like on the other sequence?
That's affirmative, Stu.
Okay. [Long pause.]
14, Houston. If you feel like doing a little paperwork here, I've got an update to the inflight erasable load procedure as a result of the new PIPA bias and gyro compensations uplinked to you just prior to midcourse 2. [Pause.]
Okay, stand by 1, Bruce. [Long pause.]
Okay, Bruce, go ahead.
14, Houston. Page 9-4 in the G&C checklist, load A for Albuquerque. Under identification number 03, the old value is 77143; new value, 76674. OID 05: old, 00110; new, 00320; OID 07: old value, 76745; new value, 77417; OID 11: old value, 00477; new value, 006 - make that 00063. Read back. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, under column A, 03, 76674; 05, 00320; 07, 77417; and 11, 00063.
Roger; readback correct. For cryogenic hydrogen management, we'd like to turn the heater in Hydrogen tank number 2, Off, and our calculations show that your pericynthion altitude is currently 67 miles. As the period of our tracking improves, we expect this to work down towards about 60 nautical miles. And we have a question for you. Have you noticed any cosmic ray flashes during your last sleep period or at other times when the Command Module was darkened? Over. [Pause.]
One at a time, Houston. You say Hydrogen 2 Heater, Off? Over.
Roger; H2 tank number 2, Heater, Off. We'll call you when we want it back to Auto or On.
Okay, it's Off now. And yea, verily, saw a few flashes. I'm not quite sure what they're ascribed to; but, nevertheless, we saw flashes during the sleep period last night.
Okay, was this...
Unfortunately, we were a little bit - we were a little bit too tired to conduct any sort of measured experimenter data with them, but maybe we'll get around to that in the next few days.
Roger. One question, would you say that you were dark-adapted when you saw these, or did you see them before you were well dark-adapted?
I will speak for myself. I didn't start seeing them until after I woke up, 3 or 4 hours after going to sleep.
Hey, Bruce, I had a comment I noticed on that last night. I'd wake up several times and I'd turn on the light to take a look around PTC and that O2 flow that's been troubling us; and then I'd close my eyes again, and I'd see some flashes real soon after I had been looking at these lights. Now they were rather subdued lights, but you know - I certainly wasn't totally dark-adapted.
Okay, what sort of lights were you using, the floodlights or the integrals?
Using the integrals mostly; on several occasions, I did have the floods up to check, and then I'd turn them back off again. And it didn't seem to matter much.
Okay, thank you, 14.
14, Houston. For your information. The program alarm was a 404 trunnion angle greater than 90 degrees. No problem.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Fred.
I wonder if you can verify for us that you have H2 tank number 1 to Auto and H2 tank 2 to Off.
That's verified.
Okay.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, Fred. We just went through the Hycon and everything checked out real fine and we ended up with magazine W on it.
Okay. Copied. And, you ended up with magazine W.
Rog. That's per the plan. [Long pause.]
Freddo, do they want these times - of these - at this point?
That's affirm, Ed. I guess they'd like the times and they'd like how many frames you used off the other Mag that was on there.
Okay. Mag V as in Victor. We started with frame zero and ended with frame 9, before resetting the counter. The LTC clock is on day 764 and 07:30 corresponds to GET of 34:26:42.
Okay. Copied. [Long pause.]
Say, Houston. We could play a lot of tic-tac-toe in the next two or three pages of the Flight Plan. [Pause.]
Say again, Ed.
The next three pages of the Flight Plan are very bare. We can play tic-tac-toe all afternoon on those.
All afternoon, huh? [Pause.]
It's about 02:00 down here.
...we just had lunch a few minutes ago; it's afternoon.
Okay. [Pause.]
Yes, I have to agree with you about the next few pages. They do look pretty slim.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
The photo people would like...
Go ahead, Freddo.
Yes, the photo people would like to know if y'all got the S-IVB pictures using the dim-light Earth-side settings there, and about when you did that - if you remember.
Stand by. We took some pictures. Whether we got them or not remains to be seen.
Is that a pun?
Rog. Say again. [Pause.]
Those pictures were completed at 34:03:25, and they were on magazine J for Juliett.
Okay. You got them at 34:03:25 on Mag Juliet.
14, Houston. [Long pause.]
Apollo 14, Houston. [Long pause.]
Apollo 14, Houston.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. I have a - an LOI minus 5-hour flyby maneuver PAD for you that we owe you about this time. [Pause.]
Roger. LOI minus 5 flyby.
You got the good book out, ready to copy? [Pause.]
That's affirmative; let her rip.
Okay. SPS/G&N, 63526; plus 0.90, minus 0.33; 076:59:31.54; plus 0382.3, minus 0104.3, minus 0008.4; 246, 208, 062; N/A; plus 0021.2; 0396.4; 0:56, 0391.2; 22, 211.7, 08.7.
Hold it, Freddo.
Okay.
Start back with Delta-VT, please.
Okay. Delta-VT, 0396.4, and 0:56, 0391.2; 22, 211.7, 08.7. The next three lines are N/A. Then Noun 81 - Noun 61s are minus 27.86, minus 168.02; 1149.8, 36159. And the last item, GET .05g at 165:12:25. Under comments, GDC align, set stars, Sirius and Rigel, R align 230, P align, 170; yaw align, 002; no ullage. And the burn is SPS docked based on the PTC REFSMMAT. [Long pause.]
Okay, I think I missed two items sent over: the Noun 47 weight, and the HP figures there.
Okay, the Noun 44 is at - apogee was N/A; perigee, plus 0021.2. [Pause.]
Roger. Noun 47, the weight?
Okay. Weight, 63526. [Long pause.]
Okay. On the LOI minus 5, SPS/G&N: 63526; plus 0.90, minus 0.33; at 067:59:31.54; plus 0382.3, minus 0104.3, minus 0008.4; 246, 208, 262; HA is N/A, plus 0021.2; 0396.4, 0:56, 0391.2; 22, 211.7, 08.7; boresight star, N/A; Noun 61s, minus 27.86, minus 168.02; 1149.8, 36159; 165:12:25. Sirius and Rigel at 230, 170, 002; no ullage. It's an SPS docked burn with PTC REFSMMAT.
Okay, Ed. Everything's okay, except two items. Apparently the one of us got our flip flops wrong here. For the attitude block, yaw should be 062, and the Noun 33 hours should be 076. [Long pause.]
Roger. The hours are 076; Noun 33; and yaw is 062.
Okay, good readback.
14, Houston.
Houston, 14. Go ahead.
I just wanted to see if you all are still around there. You all been looking out the window lately back in this direction? Seen anything interesting?
No, I haven't looked out for a while. Got something interesting for us to look at?
I was asking you - if you had seen anything from that vantage point. Pretty dark down here where I am right now. [Pause.]
It's been an hour or so, Fred, since I took a look at either back in your direction or at the Moon. Let me see if I can see where you are now. [Long pause.]
Guesstimation on the terminator ought to be somewhere around India, Pakistan; somewhere in that - along that line.
Okay.
Houston, 14. We have the Moon out the hatch window right now, Freddo.
Okay.
And I presume then that the Earth is probably out the port telescope at this moment.
I guess you'll have to wait about another 20 minutes or so for it to come up in the hatch.
Rog. Yeah, I suspect also it's down just a little bit too far for us to see.
Let's see, how big a Moon are you seeing there? Is it about not quite a half or something?
Rog. It's short of a half; and, for size, it appears about like an orange held at - short of - just short of arm's length. About - it subtends about a degree and a half now, a little less.
Roger. [Pause.] Yeah, and the board here has you at about 135,000 out now.
Okay, that'll make it slightly over a degree then, I guess. [Long pause.]
As you already know, Fred, the Moon starts to take on a little bit of brown - grayish colors about this point, as opposed to being so very bright as it appears from the Earth. You can start to see a little bit of texture here. [Pause.]
Yeah, that's a good word to remember, that texture business.
Yeah.
And, Fred, I have the monocular on the Moon now out window 5, and it - it's really starting to look very interesting from this point of view. [Pause.]
And it'll look a little better in a couple of days.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14. [Pause.]
I have the Home Planet out the hatch window now, and where did you say the terminator is?
Oh, guesstimation is somewhere between the Sudan and the India.
Rog. [Pause.]
And, looking at your position, overhead here, you ought to have - Philippines - mainland, the Far East there, in sight.
As a matter of fact, I do, Fred. There is quite a bit of cloud cover, and I'm having a little difficulty identifying landmasses. I'll be able to pick it up by the next time around here.
Okay. [Long pause.]
And, 14; Houston. [Pause.]
Go ahead.
Yeah. I was trying to give you a sunrise terminator there, Ed. I guess from your - I got some pictures here that tells me that what you're probably looking at is the sunset terminator, and that's running right through Australia and right across the coast of China.
Okay. Rog. That makes a lot more sense of it; I'm pretty sure I had the Australian continent down at the bottom of my lighted area, and looking up across the Philippines. And there's a great deal of cloud cover in that area, but there are a few islands standing out. I believe that I can see the southern tip of India standing out without too much cloud on it.
Rog. India should be right about at the - the edge.
Rog.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Is there still a semisizable tropical storm off the east coast of Australia?
Hey, I'll ask somebody about that one, Ed. [Pause.]
Part of it seems to be in darkness right now, but I seem to be seeing about half of a very large - circulating airmass.
Roger, Ed.
The Home Planet's out of my field of view, now, Freddo.
Okay, stand by one, Ed. We've got kind of a bad comm right now.
Houston, Apollo 14. Are you there?
Okay, I think we may be back on good Omni now, Ed. Go ahead.
Okay, I didn't have...
Say that last again, Ed.
I say, I don't have very much viewing time on either the Moon or the Earth. As it swings past the window, it's very low; and I - we only have just a few minutes on each window. But it's a most inviting and magnificent view. I'm very glad we have Earth as a Home Planet. I hope we can keep it so it's inviting. [Pause.]
Roger, Ed. Yes, again looking up at the big board I can - need to get about another 40,000 miles or so, then you'll be more directly in the Earth/Moon plane, and you ought to have them pretty much centered in the window about then.
Okeydoke. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
Rog, Freddo. I'm watching - out the rendezvous, right-hand rendezvous window at the thermal skin on the LM. Right now - and it is in full-Sun outside my window - and I observed as the Sun came directly onto it [garble] bands of heat and then cools off and pops back into shape again as the - starts to cool off on the next cycle. It's - it gives a rippling effect as the Sun passes across it. It's very interesting.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay, I heard a little bit of your onset there, Ed, before Omni B got us again with the bad comm there. And, I guess LM-8 got built just like LM-7, because I noticed that same sort of a thing there.
Yeah. I guess that's what it's all about. The thermal protection - expands from the heat and contracts. And, this is sure doing it on each cycle.
With respect to your weather question awhile ago, Ed, they say they do have a weak cyclonic storm to the west of Australia, but they're not showing anything to the east; and I - maybe I misunderstood, I thought you said you saw it over by the sunset terminator to the east.
Rog. It appeared to be up by the sunset terminator, Freddo. A very - like a donut-shaped cloud but several thousand miles across. It might have been too large for just the tropical storm they're talking about. Couldn't be a very widespread circulation.
Ah, I guess they need to go look out the window down there, too.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. We're ready to suspend battery charge on A.
Okeydoke.
It's all filled up again.
Glad to hear it.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
At 39 hours, the LM/Command Module Delta-P is reading 0.75.
Roger. 0.75.
Check.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Is Ed around with a headset on?
Affirmative.
Okay, Ed. I'm not...
I'm listening, Freddo.
Yes. I'm not maybe clear on a question you had earlier about the ball valves with respect to time in the burn on MCC-2, but I do have some data here. And I think the crux of it is - is that if you use a cue of the ball valves visually showing full Open to full Closed, you'll be shifting your - what you're actually starting and stopping your clock by about a quarter of a second from the actual chamber pressure. But the total Delta-Time is very close. On that burn, you would have clocked 10.15 versus 10.2 via PC. [Pause.]
Okay. You say had we measured PC we would have clocked 10.15. Is that affirm?
No. You'd have - from 90 percent PC down to 10 percent, you'd have got 10.2 seconds. And if you'd have started your watch with Bank A full Open to the Bank A needle showing full Closed, you'd have measured 10.15. Except in the time - absolute time scale, you would have started and stopped your watch one quarter second to the right. [Pause.] Because there is a lag in the - what I'm telling you is there... [Long pause.]
Okay.
...there's a lag in those needles moving by about a quarter of a second from what the actual chamber pressure is.
Okay. I understand.
14, Houston. [Pause.]
Go ahead, Houston.
I know you'll be happy to hear that we won't have a need to do the uplink here at 39:40. The state vector looks in great shape as is.
Very good. Glad to hear that. You're right.
We won't have to work that in this busy schedule here.
Okay. We'll proceed to the next item.
[O]kay, we see your Noun 93s.
Okay, [Garble]. [Long pause.]
04, 11, 00.
Roger. 040, 11, 00.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. The PTC is divergent enough that it's not going to make it through the next - this upcoming sleep period. So we'd like for you to stop at about zero roll, and we'll reinitialize. In the interim, you can do any venting or dumping you might have to do and - before cranking it up again.
[Garble] cockpit at the moment with the food and everything. We'll probably catch you the next [Garble] around. [Long pause.]
Okay. Okay. And either zero or 180 roll will be okay.
Okay.
And, 14; Houston. Who's the duty cook tonight?
Ed Mitchell's in the pantry right now.
Hello, 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. We'd like H2 - H2 tank number 2 to Auto.
Okay. H2 number 2 going to Auto now.
Okay, that's a heater switch, Al.
Got it, Freddo.
Houston, 14. We are ready with our crew status report and with a Verb 74.
14, Houston. Got a new CapCom now. Stand by 1 before you start that - report.
Okay.
And - Houston, 14.
14, Houston. Go ahead.
Okay, Gordon. Fred made his comment before you left, I guess you're - wanting us to reestablish PTC before we sack out. Is that affirm?
Affirmative.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We're waiting for a good Omni to come up before starting that E-memory dump. One reminder is to complete all dumping before you - try to start the PTC again. And a question. With respect to the O2 Flow High problems you had yesterday and any that you might have had since, we're wondering if you're doing anything - different than normal procedures as far as the - waste management overboard drain or any other - outside drains that control O2 Flow High problem. Over.
That's a negative on the - procedures. We're not doing anything unusual there. And, we haven't had any problems today. The O2 flow you saw a minute ago was when we were pumping up the cabin to 5 7. And - as far as the ones that - we had yesterday, we really don't have that psyched out.
Roger, Stu. [Pause.]
14, Houston. We're ready for the EMOD dump.
Okay, Gordon. Verb 74, and coming at you.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Apollo 14, Houston. We're ready to copy your crew status report and onboard readouts. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay. With respect to the crew status, it's excellent. We have a negative medical report. Bat C is 37.0; Pyro A, 37.2; Pyro B, 37.2; RCS A, 87; RCS B, 89; C, 86; D, 88. That was taken at 041:20:00.
Roger, Al. Would you say Bat - C voltage again?
37.0.
Roger. We copy all those. [Long pause.]
Go ahead.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We're within rate limits and it looks like a good place to start the roll rates for PTC.
Okay. We're going to hang loose here for a few minutes before we spin it up.
Roger, Stu. [Long pause.]
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Stu, when you do get ready to spin up, let us know before you do, and we'll catch it at a good point to start it and give you a Go. Over.
Okay. That sounds like a good plan. We want to make sure that we've got all the activity quieted down before we spin up.
Roger.
Houston, 14.
Apollo 14, Houston. Go ahead.
Okay, Gordon. I think we're through with our - all our venting - for the present time. And any time you say, we'll spin up.
Okay. Stand by. I guess we want to wait here a little bit.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston. It looks good now for starting spinup.
Okay, Gordon, we'll give it a go.
Apollo 14, Houston. [Pause.]
This is 14, go ahead.
Roger. I'm sorry to have woken you up if you'd dozed off, but we'd like you to check the S-Band Normal Mode Voice switch, Off, and try to go on to sleep then.
Okay. Stand by.
