Houston, Apollo 14.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Good morning, Bruce. We're reading you loud and clear. We have completed our postsleep checklist. We have the readouts for you when you're ready to copy.
Roger. Go ahead with the postsleep checklist.
Okay. The checklist is complete. We have the following readings for dosimeter, Al, 16041, slept 5 hours; Stu, 01038, slept 7 hours; Ed, 05038, slept 6½ hours.
Okay, 14. Understand. Al 16041 and 5 hours; Stu 01038, 7 hours; Ed 05038, 6½ hours. Over.
That's correct.
Apollo 14, this is Houston.
Good morning, Bruce. Go ahead.
Roger. I don't want to interrupt your eat period, but when you have a convenient time, I have a Plan update for you. It's a fairly lengthy one. Nothing in the immediate future though.
Okay. Stand by. Roger, stand by for about 5 minutes or so, and be advised we completed the LiOH canister change at 51 hours and the LM/Command Module Delta-P at 50:59, plus 0.95.
Understand 0.95 for the Delta-P at 50:59.
That's affirm.
Hey, Bruce, I'll take that Flight Plan update. Proceed.
Okay, Stu, here we go. You may want to just get out the Flight Plan and mark out the items as we go along, or you can copy it down, either way.
No, I'd rather work on the Flight Plan. You give me the right places to go.
Okay. Up through 59:20, that's 59 plus 20, everything is nominal. And from there on, you take the LM/CM Delta-P vent at 59 hours and 25 minutes and move that up to 59 hours even.
Okay, we'll move the LM/Command Module Delta-P vent up to 59 even.
Roger. Take the P52 that occurs at 59:45 and move it up 10 minutes to commence at 59:35. Over.
Okay. We'll shoot a P52 at 59:35.
Roger. At 60 hours and 20 minutes, you have a O2 fuel cell purge and a waste water dump listed. We want to move those up to 59 hours and 50 minutes. That's 59 plus 50.
You still with me, Stu?
Okay, Bruce, I moved the fuel cell purge. Yeah, I was just making - getting it all in here, Bruce. Moved the fuel cell purge and the waste water dump to 59:50.
Roger. Delete midcourse correction number 3. Over.
Jolly good. We'll strike out midcourse 3.
Okay. Now, everything scheduled between the times of 60 plus 55 and 64 plus 10 should be scheduled 1 hour earlier. And if you look at 64 plus 10, the breakpoint there comes after the Verb 48, and we're going to have a write-in that says establish PTC there at 63:10, and the LiOH canister change comes at the nominal 64:12. Over.
Okay. Let me...
Well...
read this one again, then. Everything from 61 hours to 64:10 is moved up an hour. Is that affirmative?
Roger. Starting with the prepared transfer items per LM Activation Checklist and all that stuff.
Okay, we'll move that up 1 hour.
Okay. I've got that. Everything from 61 to 64:10, move up an hour.
Roger. Stand by a second.
Roger, Stu. At the time of 63:10, following the LM housekeeping activities, reestablish PTC. Over.
Okay, we're going to PTC at 63:10.
And perform the lithium hydroxide canister change at the nominal currently scheduled time of 64:12, and pick up the normal Flight Plan timing and sequence afterwards. Over.
Okay. We'll change the canister at 64:12 on time, and then be back on the Flight Plan.
Roger. And I have a 51-hour consumables update for you, if you're ready to copy back at 51 hours.
Stand by 1.
Okay, let her rip, Bruce.
How do you read me, Stu? I think we're in the process of changing antennas.
I read you 5 square. I'm ready to copy.
Okay. GET of 51 hours even; RCS total, 84 percent; Alpha, 84; Bravo, 83; Charlie, 84; Delta, 84; H2 tank 1, 79.3, 79.7; O2 tanks, 92, 91, 45. Over.
Okay, got you at 51 hours; total, 84; Alpha, 84; Bravo, 83; Charlie, 84; Dog, 84; H2, 79.3, 79.7; O2, 92, 91, and 45.
Roger. And you may be interested in knowing that at the present time you are only 20 pounds of RCS fuel below the nominal; so, you're really gaining on it there.
I'm sorry, Bruce. You - you busted up; would you start over again, please?
Roger. With respect to total RCS fuel, you are only 20 pounds below the planned RCS budget at the present time, and you are 2...
Okay. That's broken up pretty badly. I can read we are 20 pounds below nominal.
Okay, Stu, how do you read now?
Okay. I'm back with you, and I copied the 20 pounds.
Roger. And that's really closing in on the nominal there. A couple of other items that came up while you were asleep is that we're going to go ahead and exit PTC for the LM housekeeping, since we want to have the TV up for it. And - we're going to go ahead and dump the waste water, anyway; or, wait a minute - wait a minute, I'll run that by again. We need to dump the waste water, which will ruin PTC; consequently, we're going to come out of PTC for the LM housekeeping and have a good TV attitude to boot. One item is that I believe you went to sleep with 16:20 showing on the DSKY, which was continuously updating during your sleep period; and unless you have strong feelings otherwise, we would rather have a blank display up on the DSKY to keep from cycling the little reed switches all the time. And another Flight Plan item, at 55 hours even or thereabouts, we intend to request another set of photographs of the S-IVB from you using the Data Acquisition Camera and the sextant. We'll have an updated Noun 88 for you later on. Over.
Okay, and say that time again, Bruce.
Roger; 55 plus 00. Over.
Okay, and we'll blank the DSKY.
Okay. No need to blank it now...
For sleep that is.
Roger.
No, I understand. For sleep - for sleep we'll put it to rest.
Roger, Roger. And when you all get your breakfast well prepared and you're feeling in a jovial mood up there, why, we'll proceed with the Bruce and Bo show on the morning news.
Okay, hang on till we all get tuned in. We sure wouldn't want to miss that.
It'll be a couple of minutes yet. We just got the paper here, and we're editing it right now.
Okay. IVB, Bruce; I was thinking about that - what you - I could see through the sextant. You know, I had two - it looked like two dim stars in the - in the sextant at that pointing attitude. And, I didn't see any tumbling motion at all on either one of them. And they were separated probably by - roughly half to three-quarters of a degree; I'd say 0.5 to 0.6 of a degree separation between the two, but I really couldn't see anything that would determine whether I was looking at the S-IVB or a star, a faint star.
Roger. We copy, Stu...
I really expected the... I guess I really expected the S-IVB to be a little brighter than either one of the two objects that I looked at.
Okay, stand by a second, please.
14, Houston, Stu.
Go ahead.
Yeah. We've just received the intelligence down here that your family is having lasagne for your breakfast. Over.
Oh, man; that's - that's good timing.
We thought you'd enjoy hearing about it.
There's nothing better for breakfast than lasagne, unless it's a sausage-onion sandwich.
(Laugh) Very good.
Houston. Apollo 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Roger, Bruce. I have a few observations about the light flash experiment that I'd like to pass on, and perhaps you can generate some information from it that might be useful to us.
Would you stand by a minute, please, Ed.
Okay. Standing by.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Ed, go ahead with your commentary on the cosmic ray light flashes, and we'll digest what you've got and give you our views back probably in a couple of hours. Over.
Okay, Bruce. First of all, let me say we all decided to try to dark-adapt, and run the experiment, or at least part of it, last night. I think our experience was that we probably saw one flash after dark-adapting and promptly fell asleep before we saw any more. At least that's true in my case. I think Al and Stu stayed awake a bit longer. However, I think we have seen only three types of flashes so far. What we would probably call a star, a supernova, and a flash - or rather and a streak - and I think that I have seen some - I for - don't recall a name we tagged to them, but reminiscent of the lightning flashing in - in behind the clouds. Those are the only ones that we have really identified, and it takes awhile to realize what you are seeing, because it happens so quickly that it takes a little bit of practice before you can really recognize these things. I think perhaps after watching them for another period or so, we will be a little more experienced at it and be able to do a more creditable job of dark-adapting and getting the sort of data that would be liked. My experience is that even the so-called star, the supernova, are not as clean a phenomena, or clear a picture, as I had in my mind that they would appear. There still - still seem to be at least two flashes; maybe a bright flash, followed an instant later by a more subdued flash, or perhaps a halo-like effect. It doesn't seem to be - there does not seem to be a set pattern in each case. Sometimes it's a very clear single flash. Sometimes it seems followed by a halo; sometimes it seems followed by an adjacent flash. I guess that's about all I have to say at the moment.
Roger, Ed. I think we've copied all of that.
I'd like to add a few - I'd like to add a few comments on that too, Bruce.
Go ahead.
Hey, Bruce. Do you read?
Roger, 14. Go.
Okay, Bruce. I'd like to make - You know, you asked yesterday about whether we saw them before we were dark-adapted. So, last night I took my flashlight and shined it in both of my eyes; and, of course, you know, that should ruin your - any dark-adaption that you would have. And in fact, you know, you got the - the residual glow in your eye for a minute and then closed them and, in one case, in less than a minute, I had started seeing the flashes. And on the second time around, I'd say it's probably around 2 minutes before I started picking them up.
Okay, Stu. And were you seeing - when you started seeing them, did you see a number of flashes? Ed reported, I think he saw just about one before he fell asleep.
Well, what we did was we set the timer on 20 minutes, and I heard the timer go off and by that time I had only seen four or five flashes that I could recall. However, at some other periods during the night - That isn't when I did the flashlight routine; that was later on - more toward this morning when I started playing with the flashlight - and I - in one case, I saw one and then followed not too long after that by four or five and then - haven't really picked up any pattern on that. You may see one and then three or four, and you may see one and wait awhile. I can't really - it's a little difficult to time in the dark, you know, and get a feel; and, as far as the types of them...
Okay. We're switching antennas, Stu.
three types. However, my super - supernova, there's explosions in one, and very rare; I'll see a - a - a discrete pinpoint of light for a minute, and then the streaks I've noticed are all - what I would consider over at the periphery of my - of my vision. It - it appears that almost all the streaks are right along the edge of my eye, and I get the - get the impression that the majority of these are running, say longitudinal with the axis of my body. And it seems rare that I see a streak that's right - right in the center of my vision.
This is Ed. I'm - I have had a little different experience than Stu has. I don't think that I have seen quite as many streaks as he seems to. But I have seen some that appear to be going from right to left, near the center of the field of vision. However, I have mostly been concentrating on trying to identify the types, as opposed to locating them and getting their frequency. I did observe one right after we started to dark-adapt, about 20 seconds. But nothing after that. And, as I say, I think I fell asleep sometime within a couple of minutes after that.
Do we have any observations from the Commander?
No. He's busy cooking breakfast right now.
Oh, Roger. And I guess we just went through an antenna switchover; and we've got some news here, if you all are ready.
I have only one comment. I think the echo of the other - on the light flashes. They do seem to be random, sort of a showery-type pattern. They are visible in a darkened cabin within a very few minutes after turning the lights out - probably as small a time as 1 or 2 minutes. And I've - as far as the characteristics of the flashes are concerned, I've observed about what the other guys have.
Roger. We copy, Al.
14, Houston. Are you interested in some news?
Roger. Press on.
Okay. From the sports world, "Marquette's streaking Warriors continued to hold forth as the Nation's top-ranked college basketball power, Monday while unbeaten Southern California displaced defending champion UCLA in a runner-up spot. Houston, 15 to 3, is a newcomer to the top 20. The Cougars, who play Long Island U in Madison Square Garden, Thursday night, move into the number 18 spot. USC and UCLA will collide Saturday at Southern Cal." Too bad we don't have a TV uplink for you.
It'd be pretty nice.
14, this is Bo Bobko. How do you read?
Good morning, Bo; loud and clear. How are you?
Just fine, sir. This is Washington, Associated Press. "The Food and Drug Administration said tests on compressed fish products such as frozen dinners, fish sticks, and fish cakes show mercury content well below the danger level. The FDA said Monday, 'More than 80 samples contained an average mercury level of 0.06 parts per million. Under FDA guidelines, fish with a half part per million is withdrawn from the market.'"
Seems reasonable to me.
"The chill blast of a February norther blew into Texas Monday, dropping the temperature sharply after the summer-like weather which closed out last week. January's last day saw temperatures in the 90s at several points in deep-south Texas. And it was one of the driest months ever back here in Houston - here in Texas. The Dallas weather station, for example, measured 0.16 - that's 16/100ths - of an inch of rain against the normal 2.32 inches for January."
"The Rarest Atom Particle Reported Found." New York, Associated Press. "Physicists from the University of California reported Monday, they have discovered the rarest and most elusive of the nuclear particles within the atom. They found the particle's track in a photograph of a nuclear interaction, an inch-long footprint it left during its brief lifetime of 15 billionths of a second. The particle is called the antiomegaminus baryon part - antiparticle, the mirror image of matter as we know it on Earth. The discovery is related to the idea that somewhere out there in space there are galaxies made up of antimatter, just as galaxies or star clusters, such as the one we live in, the Milky Way, is made up of matter."
Hey, Bo. I think I saw one of those just go by the window.
Grab it, quick.
Hey, Stu...
How long did you say the track was that - Bo - how long did they say the track was that they had seen?
"An inch-long footprint it left during its brief lifetime of 15 billionths of a second." They said. "We had a standing offer of a case of champagne to whoever found it, Goldhaber said. 'When I get back to the lab I have to deliver.'"
Do you think Stu qualifies for one also?
Aw, I let it get away, Bruce.
Hey, that's a pretty great piece of news.
Okay. "On Wall Street, investors bought heavily on Monday giving the Dow-Jones Industrial Average its highest single-day gain of the year. The Dow-Jones average of 30 industrial stocks closed up at 877.81, up 9.31 points, for the biggest one-day jump in '71. Trading was heavy throughout the session, with the New York Stock Exchange ticker backed up a minute or more several times during the day. The tape was 3 minutes late at the close."
Washington, UPI. "The administration is considering a pollution tax, such as a levy on emissions of air-polluting sulphur dioxides, in an effort to give industry an incentive to clean up, President Nixon's Economic Report said Monday. The report, prepared by the President's council of economic advisors and sent to Congress under Mr. Nixon's signature, said a tax may be a more effective way to control pollution than direct Government regulation."
"At 9:03 tonight, the Apollo 14 crew will begin operating under NASA's own version of daylight savings time. The readjustment of the mission clocks will bring the flight back to the actual real time - parentheses - Greenwich Mean Time - parentheses - for activities as scheduled in the Flight Plan. At 9:03 p.m., the flight will be 54 hours into the mission. However, under the nominal Flight Plan, the 54-hour mark should have been reached at 8:23. To correct this, the crew will move their mission elapsed time clock ahead 40 minutes to coincide with the real-time clock."
This is by Francis Dodds, Austin. "A bill creating an upper level college at Clear Lake as a branch of the University of Houston has been approved by the Senate Education Committee. The bill, introduced by Senator Chet Brooks of Pasadena, would create the University of Houston, Clear Lake Campus primarily to serve six area junior colleges. A proposed 360-acre campus is adjacent to the Manned Spacecraft Center. The proposed college must be started immediately, Hoffman said, for two reasons. To be of service to San Jacinto Junior College, Alvin Junior College, Brazosport Junior College, Lee Junior College, College of the Mainland, and Galveston Community College and to help limit enrollment at the University of Houston's main campus to 30,000." And then on later it says that the University of Houston Clear Lake would accept students with 56 or more semester hours and would offer degrees to the master's level.
That's pretty interesting news.
Yeah.
Rochester, New York. "Brooks Robinson, outstanding player in the World Series with his glove and bat, was named Monday night as winner of the 21st Annual Hickok Professional Athlete of the Year Award. The 33-year-old third baseman of the baseball champion Baltimore Orioles won by a large margin over another veteran, 43-year-old George Blanda, quarterback of pro-football Oakland Raiders. Robinson, who hit 428 in the World Series and made a series of spectacular fielding plays in the five-game triumph over the Cincinnati Reds, received 62 of the 146 first-place votes by a panel of sports writers and newscasters." And that winds up the news for this evening down here, this morning up there. Goodnight or morning, Bo.
I'm going home and have dinner.
I thank you guys.
Still don't understand that bit about changing the time on the Apollo 14 crew. I can't figure what those guys are doing.
Hey, that was a good newscast. You know you're pretty high in the ratings up here.
Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it.
14, this is Houston. When you're configured in a suitable VHF mode for the S-170 bistatic radar frequency check, give us a call; and then, we'll secure the S-band uplink for about 5 minutes on you. There's no great rush involved in this.
Okay. We'll start configuring now and give you a call.
Roger.
Roger, Houston. We're configured on the Flight Plan at 52 hours. Standing by.
Roger. We're going to go ahead and secure our S-band uplink.
Belay that, 14. We're going to wait until your rotation in PTC brings us around to the point where we can utilize Omni Bravo for the frequency measurement. I'll give you a call just prior to our turning off the uplink.
Okay, Bruce.
Houston, 14. Speaking of Daylight Saving Time, our Sun comes up very regularly every 20 minutes.
Roger. We copy. That's probably not unreasonable for the small-size planet you're in right now.
Apollo 14. This is Houston. We're going to secure the S-band uplink for approximately 4 minutes - 5 minutes at this time. If you need us for anything, just give us a call. We can still receive you. We still have TM, and we would bring the uplink back up. Over.
Roger. You're turning the S-band off now. Is that affirm?
Roger. We are turning the uplink portion of the S-band off at the present time.
Okay.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 14. This is Houston. On S-band, we have the uplink back up. We would like to leave the VHF configured as is, however, until we give you another call about 20 minutes from now. Over.
Apollo 14, Apollo 14, this is Houston. How do you read?
You're loud and clear, Bruce; 14.
Roger. As you may gather, we have the uplink back up at this time. We'd like to remain in the existing VHF comm configuration until we give you another call, however. That'll be about 20 minutes from now. Over.
Okay. We're easy to get along with. We'll stand by in this configuration.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger, Ed. Down at the Cape, there's a Thor Delta with a NATO communications satellite on it that is about 1 minute and 40 seconds from ignition. If you're in such an attitude that you can view the Cape, you might try a P22 and pick it up in the sextant. Latitude, 28.5; longitude, over 2, 45.5. I say again, 28.5 and 45.5. That's your option. Over.
Okay. I don't think we're going to be around in time. Al's looking at the Earth out the window 5 right now.
Okay. Maybe you could try the monocular. But that probably doesn't hold much hope.
Okay.
You want me...
Yes, he's got the monocular out now and that's 28.5.
Roger. 28.5 latitude...
Say again those coordinates...
Latitude, 28.5; and longitude over 2, 45.5.
Okay. 28.5, 45.5. We'll try it. And Al's looking with the monocular now.
Roger. Longitude over 2 is negative 40.5; negative 40.5.
Okay, minus 40.5.
Okay, Stu; 3, 2, 1, ignition, down at the Cape.
Okay. I - I didn't get the optics on; the Earth wasn't quite around. It just went out of the number 5 window just before you come.
Roger. We just thought we'd send the info up, in case you happened to be in a handy attitude.
Apollo 14, this is Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger, Al. We thought you might be interested in knowing that we have a Dr. House down here at the Surgeon's console for a few minutes watching the progress of the mission.
Good evening, William. Glad to have you aboard.
He's waving back.
Tell him everything's fine, Bruce.
He Rogers that.
14, this is Houston. We've concluded the VHF measurements. You can turn VHF Ranging, and the VHF switches, Off.
Okay, thank you.
Okay, Bruce, did you get the torquing angle?
That's affirmative, Stu. And do you have a time for us?
Hello, Houston; 14.
14, this is Houston. Loud and clear. We have your torquing angles. Do you have the time for us?
Apollo 14, Apollo 14, this is Houston; how do you read?
Okay, read you loud and clear, Bruce. Did you have lockup? Did you get the torquing angles?
Roger; we've got the torquing angles. Do you have a time at which you torqued for us?
Rog; that was 53 plus 11 plus 30.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. We'd like to get battery Bravo on Charge now. Over.
Okay. Will do. Battery Bravo.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
14, Houston. Got a string of PADs here for you, starting off with a Flight Plan update and then a little later, a Tephem update and two maneuver PADs. When you're ready to copy, let me know.
Roger, Bruce. Configured here - we're just finishing up on the experiments. We'll be ready in a minute.
Houston, Apollo 14's ready to copy.
Roger, 14. On the Flight Plan update, at 55 plus 40 PGET LOU, we'd like you to perform some more S-IVB dim-light photos while in PTC using P52 with the following Noun 88 unit vectors. Now - Stand by.
14, this is Houston. How do you read?
Okay. We're reading you loud and clear.
Okay. Did you copy any of that?
Just how do you read us; that's the first part we got.
Any of the Flight Plan update?
Negative. We haven't
Houston, 14. We're not reading you.
Okay. How now, 14?
Okay, go ahead.
Beautiful. All right, Flight Plan update at 55 plus 40 PGET LOU, perform S-IVB dim-light photos while in PTC using P52 with the following values for Noun 88. R1: minus 47607, minus 79244, minus 38131. Camera procedures and film magazine will be identical to those for the Earth dark-side photos. The S-IVB should be visible in the sextant between roll angles of 078 degrees down to 005 degrees. Over.
Okay. At elapsed time of 055:40, we will again take the S-IVB photographs in the P52, Noun 88, minus 47607, minus 79244, minus 38131, using camera magazine and Earth side - Earth dark-side photographs. The sextant roll angles including 078 down to 005.
Roger. Readback correct. And that 55:40 time is the post-GET lift-off update time and - we're preparing to give you a lift-off time update now.
Understand. That's the new time.
Roger.
14, Houston. Tephem update. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger. Tephem: OID 03, 00006; identifier 04, 35223; identifier 05, 16020. The Delta in time is 40 minutes 02.9 seconds added to GET and subtracted for a Tephem. Over.
Okay. The update identifier 03 is 00006; identifier 04, 35223; identifier 05, 16020, Delta-T, 40 minutes 02.9 seconds, add to GET.
Houston. Roger. Out. And I have an update to your lift-off plus 60 PAD.
Okay, go ahead.
Okay. On P37 lift-off plus 60, 060:00, 5381, minus 165, 117:00. Over.
Roger. GETI is 060:00, 5381, minus 165, 117:00.
Readback correct. I have a change to the previously passed SPS/G&N flyby PAD P30 for you. Over.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. The time of TIG, Noun 33 should be 077:39 minutes 34.44 seconds, and down at the bottom of the PAD, GET of.05g should be 165:52:28, and both of these last PADs assume the GET update. Over.
Okay. Noun 33 of the LOI minus 5 is 077:39:34.44 and GET is 0 -.05g, is 165:52:28. The rest remains the same.
Roger. Readback is correct.
14, Houston. We observe you're in P00. If you can give us Accept, we will send you a state vector update to improve your pointing accuracy for the S-IVB photography and a lift-off time update to adjust the GET in accordance with the PADs that we've passed you. Over.
Okay.
And, 14, we're going to hold off a few minutes here on the uplink until we get a good antenna switchover and then we'll be coming at you.
Roger. Understand.
Houston, Apollo 14. The metal composite specimen number 4 has been cooked and cooled and recorded.
Thanks a lot.
14, this is Houston. The uplink is completed. I expect you'll want to reset your mission timers.
Okay. We'll do that. And we'll also call 17 06 so you can look at Tephem.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 14. Would you check R3 Tephem for us?
My update was 16020.
Okay. Stand by. Be glad to.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay. I've got a few words on the Tephem situation. Probably the most significant...
Go ahead.
Probably the most significant part of the whole discussion is that both values of Tephem are correct, and the way that they arrive at this is as follows. The left-hand-most digit of the octal representation of Tephem is coded to include a sign. If you break the left-hand-most digit down into the 3 binary bits, the first bit being zero represents positive. The first bit being a one represents negative. In the value of Tephem update on the PAD, you'll notice that in the R3 load it was 16020 which is a positive 16020. In the value that you read out of the Command Module computer, you will notice that R2 was one least significant digit larger than the PAD value, that is, 35224. And R3, having the left-hand-most digit of 5, was in reality, equal to a minus 16017, which is then subtracted from the one-digit-larger value of R2. Does that make sense to you all? Over.
Affirmative. In other words, you want us to leave the loads the same.
Roger. Either load is correct. The Command Module Computer does not force a positive sign or a negative sign on the octal value but accepts whatever it happens to come up with. So either load is correct. Over.
Okay. Assuming we have no more updates, how would you like us to update the Tephem into the LM? Using the 1706 values?
14, this is Houston. I'll catch you when signal strength comes back up.
Okay.
14, this is Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. Back on the question of which set of Tephem to load. You can load either one in the LM. If you want a recommendation, we recommend the - the PAD value, but either one would be satisfactory. Over.
Okay. We'll call 1706 when we make our load. Thank you.
Roger.
And, Houston; 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, Bruce. We've got something in the sextant with those angles. It could be the S-IVB. It's right off to the edge in the sextant field of view and being tracked by the CMC on those angles. And I'll look at it again on the next pass, and then - take some pictures of it after that.
Okay, Stu. Very good. Could you tell that the object was tumbling, or anything like that, do you think?
I'll - I'm going to look at it again.
Roger.
14, this is Houston. For your information, the major tumble motion now has a period of 5 minutes and 46 seconds on the S-IVB. Over.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston. 14.
Ah, go ahead, 14.
Okay. Yeah. You really got the S-IVB boresighted with those angles. Now, the other cycle around - I picked up a star that's also in the field of view, and the S-IVB is tumbling, and you can see it right at the start when it comes in on this one, and then it disappears and comes back in right toward the end. So we're definitely locked in, and with those pointing angles, it's got the S-IVB right near the center of the sextant, and what I picked up the first time around evidently is a star, and it's over toward the edge of field - of the field of view.
Okay. And understand you're going to try to shoot it the next time around, huh?
Yes. We'll try to get some pictures - I guess I'll try to - I think I'll look at it one more time and try to get a time frame or roll angle where it's visible in the sextant and then try to take the pictures at that time.
Okay. It - that sounds good. It isn't going to be going anywhere.
Okay. No, we'll be hanging around here for a while.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
I just wanted to say good morning, Fred. Haven't talked to you today.
Well, good morning. Isn't quite good morning yet.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
Hey, Freddo, remember yesterday I was talking about the oil-canning effect of the heat contracting and - the heating and cooling of these panels.
Roger.
And remember you said it looked like same thing that - that was happening to LM-7?
That's affirm.
Okay. I just wanted to let you know that I think our oil-can wrinkles are prettier than LM-7's oil-can wrinkles.
Okay.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Hey, Fred, just for curiosity sake, how far away is the S-IVB?
Stand by, Stu.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Do you have any estimate of how far the S-IVB is away there, Stu?
Stand by 1.
Hey, Fred; Apollo 14.
Go ahead.
Okay, after looking through the optics and judging the size and its relative motion through the celestial sphere, I'd estimate it at 2,178 miles from us.
Well! You might replace the rendezvous radar yet. The number they gave me was 2,400 nautical miles. And it has an R-dot going away about 1 nautical mile a minute.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. Have you verified the Att Set switch in GDC?
Okay. It's verified there, Houston.
Roger, Ed.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. If you can give us P00 and Accept, we'll pump up a CMC clock update.
Okay, P00 and Accept.
Apollo 14, Houston. The computer's yours.
Okay, thank you.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, FAO would like to know about when Stu took the S-IVB pictures and how much - you got remaining on that sequence camera Mag.
Okay, just stand by 1.
Okay, Fred. I took them in sort of reverse order but using pretty much the same procedures as that dim light. However, I think I'm going to end up with streaks on the film because you know the way the CMC tracks the objects; but at 57 hours even, I took - I ran 2 seconds at 24 frames per second, 1/500th. Then I took one frame at 1/60th for 20 seconds, one frame at 1/60th for 5. And then at 57:20, I took one frame at a 1/60th for 50 seconds and had to cut it off there; I couldn't get a full minute. And then ran off another strip, and I'm calling it 78 percent left on the magazine.
Okay, Stu. I copied all of that; thank you.
Roger.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Got a little configuration change for you on panel 226. We'd like to get O2 Tank 50-Watt Heater, number 3, Main A, Open.
Okay. Let's run that again now. It's O2, the 50-Watt Heater on O2 Tank 2.
Negative. O2, 3, Main A. 3 Main A, Stu. And the reason is, they want to look at a couple of cycles - with just two elements of the heaters going rather than three.
Okay. So on O2 Tank 3, we pull the Main A 50-Watt Heater.
That's affirm. And we'll stay with that configuration through the evening, so they can get at least three or four cycles on it.
Okay.
Ah, 14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay. There's a request from down here to run through a little four-step exercise in having Al check his electrode leads and see if we can find anything early here, so we got time to do something about it before you all get around to the suiting up part of it. And I guess that's at Al's convenience in the next few hours, whenever he thinks he can work it in, maybe.
Okey doke. We're finishing up lunch right now. Let Al think it over and see when he wants to try to do it.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. We're ready to terminate charge on battery B.
Okay, Freddo.
Houston, 14.
Okay, 14, stand by 1 until I get a little better comm. I - I can hardly read you now.
14, Houston. How do you read now?
Okay, read you loud and clear. This is Al. I understand you - you're still having a problem with my sensors.
Negative, Al. The situation is - you did have the problem for launch, and then it mysteriously went away. And what they'd like is a visual inspection of the gear to see if we have anything that looks abnormal that we might think about fixing at this time, rather than wait until just before suit-up time, where we'd like to not fiddle with anything.
I have - I've checked all the sensors, Freddo. They all seem to be firmly in place. They don't appear to have moved. I did have some garble in the gober cable at one time, and that has been changed and now you can compare gober cables. That might have made the difference. I can switch back to that and take a check on that one if you want to.
No, that - I don't think that's necessary. I might just tell you what they had in mind here and see if you - kind of covered all of the - the places they wanted you to check. Around each of the electrodes, they wanted to know if you had any of the paste that appeared to leak out that you could see stain under the large round pieces of tape you got over them, was the first item. Then, another inspection thing was to look at the solder joints, that's the areas that had the little plastic sleeves over them, to see if you could see anything that appeared to be cracked or coming loose in there. And I guess the last inspection item was the - in your biobelt to check that the top and bottom connectors on the blue - the little blue EKG signal conditioner was all tight.
Okay. We have one that appears to have leaked a little bit. It's the bottom one on the sternum.
Okay, the bottom one on the sternum. Okay, and I guess the only other square, which should be pretty easy to fill here, Al - he's looking at your data now - is to sequentially put some firm pressure on each of the three sensors for about 10 seconds, giving a call down when you're applying the pressure.
Okay. Understand you're ready now?
That's affirm. They're looking at your data now.
Okay, in the top section of the sternum, I am pressing down the one closest to the right shoulder, now.
Okay.
And I'm releasing on that one, now.
Okay.
On the top of the sternum, I'm pressing down the center one, now.
Roger, Al.
And releasing now.
Okay.
Okay. And the bottom - on the bottom of the sternum, the one who appears to have leaked a little bit, I'm pressing down, now.
Okay.
And releasing, now.
Roger.
Okay. I think that fills all the items I got here, Al.
Okay. This is Al, Houston. Understand that we're cleared to continue with the present harness and cable configuration.
Yeah, for the time being that - that's the word, Al. But they're going to look at the data. I guess the bottom one you pushed on showed more change than the others, and they're going to look at it awhile and decide if they want to do anything about that bottom one, I guess.
Okay.
Houston, 14.
14, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 14.
14, Houston. I can barely make you out there. Go ahead.
Okay, 14. Houston. You should be all right now. Go ahead.
Okay, Freddo. Inquiring about the LM/Command Module Delta-P test at 59 hours, is that number, 2.7, still good since we have already been in the LM and had a problem with our probe?
Stand by 1.
14, Houston. The answer is the 2.7 number is a good one.
Roger. Roger.
Apollo 14. We have the null bias check, if you're ready to copy.
Okay. Go ahead, Al.
Okay, at the end of the 100 seconds, it was reading minus 98.9.
Okay.
Houston, 14. O2 heaters configured per Flight Plan?
Roger, Al.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, Al. First, we got some words for you on the - replacing this lower ECG sensor, and it'll be just taking it off and cleaning it and replacing the same one.
Okay.
Okay. The materials that you're going to be needing are all in the medical kit over in R-8, and what you'll need is one of those large pieces of tape and one of the ring - rings that fit on the sensor. And the paste that's in the plastic bottle. And all these are in the kit.
Okay.
Okay. And you can do this at your convenience, Al. There are just a couple of things that we want to make sure you get cautioned on. I'll go ahead and go through the procedures here and if there's anything that you want gone over again, why, just holler. First, remove the tape and the sensor, and clean your skin with one of the wet wipes. And then wipe the paste from the inside of the sensor. Wipe the sensor itself out first, and then pull off the old piece of tape. That's a double stickyback. It looks like that round, double stickyback Scotch tape. Pull that off after you've cleaned the sensor out. Then take the new ring, and pull off one of the - one of the pieces of cardboard on the ring, and put it on and leave the other side covered. Then put the - then put the paste in the sensor. And after you've got the paste in there level, pull the other side off so that its stickyback is showing and put it back on your - put it back on your skin then.
Okay. I understand. I'll give you a call if I have any questions. That sounds pretty good.
Okay.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay. We'd like you to put off doing the water dump. In a little bit here, I'll have a Flight Plan update with some instructions to shoot some pictures when we have you do that.
Okay. You caught me just in time. I was on my way to the dump valve now.
Read your mind, Ed. Which dump was that?...
Okay. Did you get the torquing angles, Houston?
We got them.
Okay. I trust you're going to put if off until after we've finished with the LM and the TV show, et cetera. Is that right, Freddo?
Yes. I think the pictures they're wanting are from the LM side.
Okay.
And Fred, the time on that torquing was 59:41:10.
Okay. 59:41:10.
Rog.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Hey, I got a Flight Plan update for you here and a whole bunch of words on shooting the water from the LM.
Okay, go ahead. I'm ready for the Flight Plan update.
Okay. At 60 hours and 40 minutes where you've maneuvered a TV attitude, we need to change the roll angle to 069; and as a result of that, we also change the High Gain angles to minus 66, Pitch; and Yaw, 105.
Okay, Fred. I got the High Gain angles of a minus 66 and 105; and say the new attitude for TV.
Okay, it's - the only thing changed is the roll angle to 069, so it'll be 069, 090, 000.
069, 090, 000; minus 66, 105.
Okay. Now - now some words on the water dump. Like to delay the waste water dump to 62 hours and 30 minutes rather than the 59:50 that it had previously been set at.
Okay, I got it. Waste water dump at 62:30, and say after that.
Okay, the after that was just to scratch out the 59:50 you had before. Now some words on the...
Okay.
on the camera operation. Al and Ed should take over to the LM with them magazine F out of the B-8 cushion and borrow your 18-millimeter lens out of the Command Module.
Okay, and they'll take magazine F out of B-8 and I guess I'll let them borrow my 18 millimeter to take in the LM.
Okay, just might make sure they give it back to you. But when they get it over there they can stick it on the LM deck and...
They'll have to sign a receipt.
Yeah. And put - the following settings required on the LM deck. f/8, 1/250th, 11 feet, and 24 frames a second.
Okay, put the 18 millimeter on the LM deck and set her up f/8, 1/250th, 11 feet, and 24 frames per second.
Okay. And to run the camera, of course, they're going to need the Sequence Camera circuit breaker closed, and that actually fits in pretty well if they just do all this business right where that's called out on page 116, step 9, of the Activation List.
Okay. They'll need the Sequence Camera circuit breaker in and we're talking about page 116, step 9.
Roger. And if that doesn't quite align with the Flight Plan time I give you, that 62:30, it isn't going to matter that much anyway.
Okay.
Okay. Now they need a cue from you, Stu, to let them know when you're going to start the dump. And what they'd like them to do is have the camera pointing through the docking window of the LM, the upper window, right at the vent and run it 20 seconds' worth at 24 frames.
Okay. They'll boresight on the vent and run her 20 seconds at 24 frames.
Okay, then they'd like to change the frame rate to one and run the camera for another 20 seconds.
Okay. Change to one frame per second and run 20 seconds.
Okay. After that chore, they can rest a while and wait until you get down to the end of the water dump, Stu, and you can kind of give them the word when you're ready to shut her off. And then they'd like them to shoot the vent again at 24 frames a second for 10 seconds.
the vent.
Stand by 1, Stu, we got pretty bad comm now.
And, Stu, how do you read me now?
Loud and clear, Fred.
Okay. We left off with them shooting 24 frames for 10 seconds when you turn the valve off.
That's affirmative.
Okay. Then they're to change the frame rate to one frame per second and run the camera for at least 60 seconds or until cloud particles are no longer visible. But I guess if neither of those two events happen in that time, they're not to run it longer than about 180 seconds' worth.
In other words, they're trying - they'd like to get a picture of the last drop there, Stu.
Okay. They'll change to one frame per second for at least 60 seconds or until no vent, and max time will be 180 seconds.
Yeah, that's it. Then the only thing else is, you can frisk them when they get back and make sure they got your 18-millimeter lens and the Mag F back across, and they should put the 10 millimeter back on the LM camera.
Roger. I'm having Al sign a receipt for the Command Module property in here before it leaves.
Okay.
And, 14, we're going to have a site changeover here directly. We may lose you for a minute or so.
Okay.
And, 14; Houston. Radio check.
Loud and clear. How me?
Okay. I guess we've successfully did the switchover.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Stu.
Okay, Fred. I'd like to question you here, since we've had this change in the Flight Plan, about going to the Wide Deadband here. If I do that, then it'll be another maneuver back to start the PTC, where if I stay Narrow Deadband, I could be damping the rates when I got ready to start the PTC. Would you smoke that over there and see what you think about that?
Okay. Stand by, Stu.
Houston, 14.
Stand by, 14, until we get a little better comm.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, I thought I heard you call a while ago.
Houston, do you read 14?
Okay. I'm reading you about 3 by 3. Go ahead with your message.
Hello, Houston. Do you read 14?
Houston, do you read 14?
14, Houston.
Okay, Freddo. We're reading you loud and clear.
Okay. We got good signal strength again here.
Okay. You're coming in now.
Okay, Fred. I didn't hear back from you and I wanted to get to the roll on this time around because it'll be too late the next one. So I'm going to go ahead and go in the narrow deadband. It looks to me like it would be - we'd save gas that way.
Okay. He was still trying to crank out some numbers to compare there, Stu.
Freddo. You've faded out again. We've lost you.
How do you read now?
14, Houston. How do you read?
14, Houston. We'd like Omni Alpha.
And - Houston, 14. How do you read now?
Houston, this is 14. You're loud and clear.
Okay. The narrow deadband looks like it'll save you a little gas there, Stu.
Okay. I didn't hear back from you so I wanted to catch the roll this time around. So I went ahead and went Narrow.
Okay.
Houston. I'm on the High Gain right now. How do you read?
Loud and clear, Ed.
How's your PCM?
Okay. They say it looks good.
Okay.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
At this High Gain Antenna setting - I can - it will not switch over to Narrow Deadband; apparently. I have as much signal strength at Medium as I do in Narrow.
Okay. We'll think about that.
Okay, 14; Houston. They'd like for you to stay in Narrow.
Roger. That's where I am.
