Houston, 14.
Go ahead.
Roger. We're in the process of pressurizing the LM now, as you can probably see. We're holding for the integrity check at this point. I have the television set up and I can turn it on at your command.
Okay, Ed. Stand by on the TV, we'll see if they're ready.
Okay. They're all set up, Ed; you can turn it on any time.
Houston, I'm transmitting. [Long pause]
Okay. We got the picture, Ed.
Roger, Houston. You should be able to recognize it. There's the Commander's number 1 window. There's its field of view at the moment. And Alan is up in the tunnel working the pressurization procedure. Stuart is coming up from under the Commander's seat - you can see his head starting to come into the field of view now - from stowing items down under the seat. Let's see if I can get a little better picture here for you. [Long pause]
Yes. Stu's head looks pretty good in color there. [Long pause]
You mean that color wheel can handle red, Freddo?
Yes. It seems to be doing a pretty good job there. I noticed some speckles on the window there. Is that - did y'all end up with a little debris on there?
We have a few ice crystals, apparently, that have adhered to it from the various dumps we've made.
You know, Freddo, that window was clean as all get out until we started all the dumping. [Long pause]
Houston. We're continuing the pressurization procedure. We've just opened up the pressurization valve between the two spacecraft. And we're flowing into the LM from the Command Module. Give you a picture if you can see it here. There's our cabin pressure gage, shows your quantity as well. Let's see if I can get it in view. [Long pause]
A little dark and out of focus there right now, Ed.
Yes. It's a little too close. [Long pause]
Yes. That's a little better, I can now see the - your little card there showing the antenna patterns. But the needles on the gage is a little hard to read. [Long pause]
We'll give up on that, Freddo. Our pressure is equal between the Command Module and the LM, and we will start removing tunnel hardware at this point.
Okay. [Long pause]
And, Houston, we're starting to shoot up into the tunnel here where - Alan Shepard is starting to pull the hatch out - if I can get him to look down for a minute and say hello to the world.
Okay, Ed. I can see a form there that I guess is Al. It's - this picture is just a little bit dark. You can see the lights up in the tunnel.
Roger. I think we'll have just a little bit more light once this hatch gets out of the way. We have all of our floodlights on full right now. While they're doing that, let's slide out to the CDR's window and take a look at the Moon, which happens to be right out the window. [Long pause]
Going to coach me a little bit, Fred, as I approach this?
Okay, we can see it now; it's right down in the lower right quadrant of the window. The picture, though, we're seeing is a crescent, and it's really not showing too much of the detail, Ed. [Long pause]
Okay. Assume you're zooming the camera now, Ed. And we lost the picture of the Moon.
Okay. Let me try it again. [Long pause]
Okay. I think what happened when you zoomed, Ed, you ended up pointing above it. [Long pause]
Do you see anything now, Freddo?
Okay, it just disappeared out the lower right corner. We had it there for a little while.
Okay. How now?
Okay. There, it barely came in the bottom portion of the picture now. Whereabouts is the terminator now? Is that about Tranquility, somewhere in there ?
It's past Tranquility, and I think it's - it's approaching zero longitude at this point, I believe.
Okay.
A few hours ago we just passed Delta 'Tegnius [?], Fred.
Yes. Right, Stu.
Roger. It - I was looking through the sextant there just a minute ago. It - all of Descartes - around Descartes and the Highlands showed up real well and the terminator had just moved on over just past Platte [?]. [Long pause]
Okay. And for your information, in the audience in the back here, we have most of the family in tonight - this morning down here, I should say.
Yes. 3:15 is a good time of night to have a TV show.
Prime time. Yes, that's about right in the center of the picture now. [Long pause]
Okay. I've got full zoom on it, Freddo. And maybe it's too bright. Let's see if I can darken it. It'll improve the picture a little.
Yes, you're right. It's so bright, Ed, we're - we have the crescent, but not too much detail on.
Yes, that's a little better.
And from our point of view, the Moon appears about the size of a grapefruit, held at the arm's length. It's going to get considerably bigger, and if I don't have the Earth to compare it with at the moment. But I suspect they are about the same size or maybe the Moon is starting to exceed the Earth in apparent size, [Long pause]
Okay. And the big board now has you at ...
Okay. We'll go ...
... about ... 180,000 out.
Roger. Okay, I'm going to come back inside. We have now stowed the hatch. And Stu and Al are up starting to bring the probe out. And very soon we'll be able to make the trip into the LM with the camera and see what we can find in there. [Long pause]
We have not, as you can obviously see, rehearsed this. Our procedures are new to us, going into the LM for the first time. And, as a matter of fact, we were a little bit rushed getting the pressurization procedure complete in order to get in on time. We'll be ready here in about 2 minutes to move on into the LM, I think. [Long pause]
Okay, Ed.
And, now, let's go back inside the Command Module. [Long pause]
Okay. Are we looking up in the tunnel area now, Ed? It's pretty dark right now.
Yes, I'll be bringing the probe out ...
Yes, I'm trying to, Fred, but it's dark. Just 1 second, I'll see if I can improve the light situation for us.
Roger. [Long pause]
Okay. You're looking directly up into the tunnel now. The probe has been released from the drogue, and Stu will be bringing it straight down through the tunnel.
Yes. We got that picture in pretty good now. We can see it coming on down. [Long pause]
Okay, Houston. Al and Stu are taking the probe down under the right-hand couch now.
Roger, Ed. [Long pause]
Yes, we can see Al in the picture now.
Okay. He's probably clearer for you than he is on our monitor. It's a little dark in here.
You can look up the tunnel and see the drogue [Garbled], Ed, and I'll go and pick it up for you. [Long pause]
Okay. You're looking directly at the drogue now, which is gray in color and which has a hole in the center above the capture latches. [Long pause]
In our color pictures here, the opening in the drogue looks red in color. Like a big red eye.
Okay. And Alan has it out and he's starting to come down the tunnel with it. That's probably a little dark for you, but he's coming down anyhow.
Okay, and we've temporarily, I hope, lost our picture down here, Ed.
Okay. [Long pause]
Fred, do you have your picture back yet?
Negative, Ed. [Long pause]
And 14, the problem with the loss of picture is on our end of the street.
Okay. Tell me when you have it back and we're ready to go through into the LM.
Okay. [Long pause]
And, Ed, Houston. You may continue the commentary, I guess. It's being received out at the site and being recorded; we're just not getting it - plumbed into here.
Okay. While we were just holding up here, Alan has slipped on through into the LM and is opening up the window shades and turning on the lights, so that as we go in, we will have some lights to give you a little better picture. I'm waiting here until - to get your picture back before I start in; however, if you would like, I'll go ahead and go into the LM.
Stand by 1, Ed. Okay, Ed. They don't have an estimate right now. We might wait a couple of minutes; and then, I guess, if we haven't got it back, you can proceed. [Long pause]
Okay. Okay, Alan's coming back through the tunnel now and it will be clear here in a minute. [Long pause]
Houston, while we're waiting for your picture to come back and, since it is being recorded at the site, we will take a quick station break and let Alan give us a commercial for Apollo 14.
Okay. [Long pause]
Okay. Apollo 14 is progressing very nicely. As you can see, we're now right on schedule. And it looks as though the first midcourse correction is going to put us in for the lunar orbit insertion burn - very close. We're - we're currently preparing to go into the LM as Ed has told you; and, so far, everything is working very well in the Command Module. We're very pleased with the way the systems are working. Everything is quiet, going along extremely smoothly, and we have a happy little ship here. Everyone is well. Everyone is resting well. We're adapting to weightlessness, I think, very rapidly. And everything is going along very smoothly at this point. [Long pause]
Roger, Al. And we have a picture back now. It's just a little bit on the dark side, but we can see you quite well.
Okay, Freddo. We'll start on in.
Okay. How's that?
Hey, that's a good picture, Ed.
Okay. We're starting through the tunnel.
Why don't you show the docking latches while you go by, Ed. See how they look on the television. Can you see the docking latches, Freddo?
Roger. We can see those, Ed. We can see on down to the tunnel and the top of the ascent engine cover.
Okay. I think it's significant that, in spite of our problem the other day, that when Stu - Stu finally got us into the docking ring that all of them snapped shut, which is - was very well lined up. And our docking index, as you know, cost us a case of beer, I think, because it's within 1 degree. [Long pause]
Okay. And you might let us know, Ed, how you find the fit through the tunnel there.
Okay. I'm sliding through.
Hey, was that question from Joe?
I'm not sure he'd own up to it.
Okay. I'm through the tunnel, and I'm right at the top of the LM. I'm shining the - showing the camera down on the main console on the Commander's side. How's that picture, Freddo?
Okay. That looks very good, Ed.
And let's see. I'll turn it around. I'll go ahead and go on down and twist around, and maybe we can look out the window. [Long pause]
And, we're now inside the LM. [Long pause]
Thank you, Ed.
Can you see that, Fred?
Yes, we see what looks to be a patch there, Ed.
Is it good enough for you to read it?
Is it something like beep, beep or -
How did you ever guess?
Must be some prompting from the ground.
Okay. And, Ed, a good portion of your swing here, the picture is a little bit on the dark side. You might try opening it up just a little bit more.
Roger. I've had it open all the way, Freddo.
Well, I guess you can't do any better than that. [Long pause]
Did you find the LM pretty clean, Ed, when y'all first came aboard or was anything loose in there?
No, both spacecraft, Freddo, have been immaculate. I think we have found one washer floating along about 1 day ago, and we have seen nothing that was foreign to the spacecraft either before or since that time. And, as I say that, I see one floating by me right now. It may be the same washer. [Long pause]
Yes, I'd like to point out that Ed is talking about something external to the spacecraft. The cabin above the Command Module and the LM are extremely clean. We've been very pleased with the way they've looked.
Very good.
Yes, I think from what we've heard along the line, we actually expected maybe to see a few more nuts and bolts. I think a lot of credit goes to checkout crew and everything because this spacecraft is really in good shape. [Long pause]
And, Freddo, I'm passing the camera back to Alan in the Command Module. We don't have enough light in here to really give you a good picture. And there's not much help from the outside since the Sun is behind us right now.
Roger, Ed. I - we got a pretty good picture of you down in the tunnel right now. [Long pause]
Hey, Fred. Did you hear that last comment I made about the crew and how clean the spacecraft was?
Roger, Stu.
Well, that was planted, you know, for all the authorized people that worked on the spacecraft. You know, we're really unindated [sic] with unauthorized objects in both spacecraft. I think Ed was showing you one up there, but if you could see this. I don't know if any of the backup crew is down in there tonight or not. But - okay, how about - about here - [Garbled] But, they've left their calling card. [Long pause]
Okay, we have a pretty good picture of that, Stu. And, they are here.
Okay. Tell them we sure appreciate every compartment that we open up having one of these come floating out of it.
They aim to please. [Long pause]
Stu, you want to take the camera? Perhaps you can move it on up to the window. I don't know how much light there is, but sure is a good shot of the Moon out there. You might try again with the monitor so you can see what it looks like to them.
Well, we'll give it a go. [Long pause]
Okay, we can see the Moon again in the number - number 1 window. It's down in the lower left corner now, Stu. Hey, that's about right in the center. [Long pause]
Okay, that's - the picture's a little distorted now, Stu. It's a little bright. [Long pause]
Okay, that ought to help it a little.
Yes, that's about right. It's still hard to see in this picture - much in the way of detail of the features - any features on the surface. Right at the terminator, we can pick up a few craters; but, other than that, it's really hard to see very much. [Long pause]
Okay. Yes, I didn't think it was going to show up too much there, Fred, because that's really the way it looks with the eye. It's just now starting, you know, to get into the area where the larger craters would show up. [Long pause]
Okay, we've got a good picture of Al there, now.
Okay, he's got the transfer items that he's taking up into the LM for the activation, and he might just give you a word on what they are.
The purpose of the excursion into the LM at this time is to check out some of the communications, do a little housekeeping, look - generally look the vehicle over, and also, in this particular case, we are going to take some pictures of the Command Module while we're there. This is done during the flight on the way to the Moon to save time, so that when we actually go into the LM for the final time prior to the descent, there will be less things to do. So, I have a package of things here in my hand which I'll now be taking up into the LM and will proceed on with our housekeeping tasks up there. [Long pause]
Okay, we can see him heading out with the package in hand there. [Long pause]
Okay, is there enough light up in there, Fred? You getting the picture?
Roger, Stu.
Okay.
Looks like running an obstacle course in the early going, getting by all the hoses.
You got it. [Long pause]
And, Freddo, I'm starting back through the tunnel now to pick up the rest of the equipment. We have several 16- and 70-millimeter camera Mags that are being transferred over. We'll pick those up and be right back with you.
Okay, Ed.
Okay, I guess the picture I'm looking at now, as you're pointing back into the LEB in the area where the optics would be. And I can see the radiation meter back there.
Yes. Yes. That's affirmative, Fred; I'm just really trying to get the camera out of the way there for a minute. Ed's got the other film magazine. He's headed back up into the LM now. [Long pause]
Yes, Ed fits through there quite easily. I guess zero g really does help.
(Laughter) [Garbled] no comment.
If you're commenting on what I think you're commenting on, it was totally uncalled for, Freddo. And, Houston, we are both - Al and I are both in the LM now with all of our transfer items, and we will proceed to go ahead and give it a checkout as per the time line.
Roger, Ed. [Long pause]
Okay, Fred. I'll try to move up here, and maybe we can look over the shoulder a little bit.
Okay. I can see a moving back and forth; I guess your head is down through now. [Long pause]
Okay, we're going to get a picture of it all up here, Fred. I'm up ahead by the LM hatch now, trying to watch them work in the LM; but it doesn't look like it's going to be bright enough. [Long pause]
Yes. It's - it's a pretty dark picture now, Stu.
Yes, I'm afraid that's not going to show up. If we had a little light, I guess we need a little Sun through the LM window. [Long pause]
Well, Houston, I guess Fred and I'll have to give you a show from - I mean Stu and I'll have to give you a show from that side. It's too dark over here.
[Garbled.]
Okay. And you're cutting in and out there, Ed.
Okay. How now? Is that better?
Okay. You're loud and clear now.
Fred, this is Al. As you know, we have the probe and drogue out. Is there anybody that - who's interested in taking a look at those, or are you pretty well satisfied that just taking still - still pictures of it from here on out will do the trick?
Okay, Al. The word is the pictures should suffice. I - They're not that - particularly interested in another look right now.
Okay. Is there anything else you'd like to see before we sign out for the evening? [Long pause]
Okay, Ed - Al. The - I guess the answer is no to your last question.
Okay. In that case, we'll sign off from Apollo 14. We appreciate the opportunity to show you around the spacecraft and a little bit of the LM; and I hope that next time you see the LM, it'll have more light, so you'll be able to see it better.
Thank you very much.
Hey, Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, Freddo, do you want me to stay on the High Gain here or go to Omni Charlie?
They would like you to stay on High Gain.
Okay.
Okay; and, Stu, would you pass one word on down to Al and Ed? [Long pause]
Yes, I can do that.
Okay. Would you tell them to - to give us a call before they proceed on page 1-15, where they're going to turn on the - the comm and get a Go from us and make sure we've got good lock on the S-IVB. [Long pause]
Roger. Freddo, I'm still on the comm. I understood. [Long pause]
Okay, and I guess when you get there, Ed, just check with us, and - and I'll make sure they're set up good on the IU before you press on. [Long pause]
Okay, Freddo.
14, Houston. You still there?
That's affirmative. Go ahead.
It's just pretty quiet. Just wanted to see if you were still around.
That's affirm.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, Freddo, I guess - sitting here looking, the next hour - we - You'd originally said we're going to go into PTC at 62:10. I don't know if that was before you came up with the waste water dump or not; we don't really want to start that before the waste water dump, do we?
That's right, Stu. The time - Let's see, I show on the flight-plan change here is 63:10, establish PTC. I'll recheck that. Stand by. [Long pause]
Okay. You're - you're right, Freddo. 63:10, okay.
Okay, Stu; but, in any case, you're right, not before the water dump.
Yes, that - that was my mistake. I had marked that in and before I'd moved everything up an hour, and I've got it back over there in the right place, and I did mark it off. Thank you.
And, 14, while we're talking about PTC, Stu, I'd like B/D roll selected before you crank it up. [Long pause]
Okay, we use B/D roll.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
You got any idea, Stu, where they are in the Good Book, so we can maybe begin and be warned about the IU business?
Stand by. I'll check. [Long pause]
Okay, they're finishing up 111, Freddo.
Okay, 111.
Okay. Just a second here. [Long pause]
Okay, Houston; Apollo 14. We're switching to LM power at 62:21:14.
Roger, Ed.
Houston, the - the ED Bus Bat A is reading 37 volts; Bat B, 37 volts.
Roger. Both of them 37 volts, Ed.
That's affirm.
Yes, I need you to turn on your ... [Long pause]
14, how do you read? Houston.
I read you 5 square, Freddo.
Hey, Fred, when you get a minute, I need a VHF A check.
Okay.
Okay. And we'd like high taps on the LM.
Okay. High taps on the LM.
Okay. We're going to get them to them.
Okay. I guess we're reading Antares now, loud and clear.
Okay. And we're checking out the [Garbled] ...
Hello, 14, Freddo. This is Antares. Do you read loud and clear?
Too many of you are speaking at once there. Say again, Antares.
Okay. I was just giving you an estimated check from Antares.
Roger. Loud and clear, and go ahead, Kitty Hawk.
Disregard, Fred.
Okay. [Long pause]
Okay. Your first one is 20 seconds at 24 frames a second, and then 20 seconds at 1 frame per second. Then, when you get near the end, when you're going to shut it off, you want 10 seconds at 24 frames per second, and then 1 frame per second as it peters off.
That's correct, Ed. Except they didn't want to run it any longer than 180 seconds, which is pretty close to 3 minutes.
Yes. I've got it. [Long pause]
Can you see it?
Oh, boy, it's not there.
And, Ed, or Antares, just a reminder. You're on SPA Down Noise Backup now, so you're hot-mike.
Roger. Suspected that. Thank you.
We're holding up, Freddo, on our procedures until Al finishes getting the waste water dump pictures.
Okay. [Long pause]
It probably does.
Yes. [Long pause]
Houston, from the LM, this water dump looks like a snow storm.
Yes. That's the way I figured it would look. [Long pause]
Fred, were you getting your LO bit rate? If so, I'll switch you over to Hi.
Stand by 1. [Long pause]
Okay. Okay, Ed. It looks good here. LO bit rate, you can go to step 3.
Roger. There's Hi bit rate. [Long pause]
Okay. We got Hi bit rate now, Ed.
Roger. Going step 4.
Houston, how do you read Antares?
Okay. I read you loud and clear, Ed. [Long pause]
And, Antares; Houston. We're ready for step 5.
Roger. And, Houston; this is step 5. How do you read Antares?
Antares, we're reading you loud and clear on LO bit rate, now.
Roger, standing by. [Long pause]
Antares, Houston. We're ready for step 6, now.
Roger. [Long pause]
Antares, Houston. How do you read?
Okay, Freddo, loud and clear. How me? [Long pause]
Okay, it's not bad at all. I'd say you're loud and clear, also. [Long pause]
Roger.
Antares, Houston. We're ready for step 7, now. [Long pause]
All right, Houston. How do you read Antares?
Okay, Antares, Houston. Read you loud and clear.
Roger, Houston. Kitty Hawk, Antares, how do you read VHF A?
Ed, how do you read on A?
Loud and clear, Stu.
Antares, Houston. We're ready for step 8 now.
Roger, Freddo. Stand by 1. [Long pause]
Kitty Hawk, Antares. How do you read VHF A, now? [Long pause]
Houston, Antares. How do you read?
Antares, Houston. Read you loud and clear. [Long pause]
Okay, I guess I'm ready for step 8, now.
Okay, you're Go for step 8.
Okay, now. Roger. How do you read, now?
Read you loud and clear, Ed. [Long pause]
Okay, Ed. Everything looks good down here.
Okay, Freddo. Stand by - We're still having trouble - not getting our VHF turned up.
Roger. [Long pause]
Okay. It's B Simplex.
Okay, how me? [Long pause]
Kitty Hawk, Antares. How do you read me on VHF B? [Long pause]
Kitty Hawk, Antares. How do you read VHF B? [Long pause]
Kitty Hawk, Antares. How do you read, now? [Long pause]
Antares, Houston. We'd like a readout on Bat 5 and 6 - voltage. [Long pause]
Stand by, Houston. [Long pause]
Kitty Hawk, Houston. We're ready to dispense with the water dump, now.
I've already shut it off, Freddo. I'm just coming back up, now.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Antares. Read you loud and clear.
Okay, you're 5 square. Let's try A.
Okay.
How do you read on A, Ed?
Kitty Hawk, Antares. Read you loud and clear on A. How me?
You're 5 square.
Okay. We check out finally. [Long pause]
Houston, Antares. Bats 5 and 6 are reading 36 and a half and 37 volts, respectively.
Okay. Copied, Antares.
Okay, Ed. Can I turn - Do you want me to turn the VHF Off? [Long pause]
Houston, Antares.
Go ahead, Antares.
We're going to skip the OPS checkout until Al gets through with his camera work. And I'm going to go ahead with the comm deactivation. We'll pick the checkout up shortly.
Okay, that'll be all right. [Long pause]
Okay. Antares is going off the air for a couple of days.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Is Ed still downstairs?
Yes. They're both down there.
Okay.
We just transferred to - we just transferred to Command Module power. Be coming back up in a minute.
Roger, Antares. I got - I got a question there. I was wondering if Ed recalls back on step 1, on comm activation, if he had to switch the antenna - S-Band Antenna switch, was it already in Aft or did he move it to Forward and then back to Aft? [Long pause]
Okay. Stand by. [Long pause]
Okay, this is Antares talking through Kitty Hawk's transmitters. We found the S-Band Antenna switch in Aft as the checklist called for, and he did not move in for step 1.
All right.
Antares, Houston.
Okay. This is Antares. Go ahead. [Long pause]
Okay, Al, are you back in the Kitty Hawk, now?
No, I'm still in Antares, but I'm using Kitty Hawk cable.
Roger. The question is, we've got you back on - Antares - back on Command Module power, and they're showing about 2 amps high. And, the question is, has the reconfiguration been complete as per the initial activation status chart for circuit breakers back on 13 and 14 yet? [Long pause]
That is affirmative, per checklist.
Okay.
Houston, Antares.
Go ahead, Antares.
The OPS checkup complete. The source pressure on the CDR's reading 6200; lowest pressure on LMP is reading 6000.
Okay. Copy now. CDR's 6200; LMP, 6000.
Houston, Antares.
Go ahead, Antares.
We rechecked our circuit breaker configuration, and we found that EPS DC Bus Volt, panel 11, was out. It is now in. [Long pause]
Roger.
Antares, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
I was just looking through the checklist on page 1-18; under the 64-hour callout, it shows that EPS DC Bus Volt circuit breaker back open. It comes after you check the circuit breaker charge, up at the top of the page. So I guess that DC Volt should be open. [Long pause]
Okay, stand by 1.
Houston, Antares.
Go ahead, Antares.
Okay. I think our checklist is finally in phase with your checklist, and the DC Bus Volt circuit breaker, panel 11, is out.
Roger, Al.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead.
That current in the LM seems to be dropping down. It's down to about an amp, now. It's looking pretty normal. So we don't think any more effort trying to find out the cause of it is worthwhile. Over.
Okay. As I say, I think we're finally in phase now. We - The - the last item we did was turn out the floodlights which probably helps the situation. The - the LM hatch is now closed, and both Ed and I are clear of it.
Roger. [Long pause]
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. If - if it's convenient to get to, we'd like to know how much of that magazine Foxtrot you used taking pictures of the water dump. [Long pause]
Okay, Al says he used one-third of the magazine.
Roger, Stu; one-third.
Houston, 14.
14, Houston. Go ahead.
Okay, Gordon, I guess you're going to give me a call when it's okay for PTC, huh?
That's right. Down a little, we'll take a look and see how your rates look.
Apollo 14, Houston. You look good now; you're clear to spin it up.
Okay, thank you.
Also, we'd like Omni Bravo, and you're clear to secure the high gain antenna.
Roger. Bravo.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We're watching your PTC, and it doesn't look too good. It's heading right on out of the box. We lost data just as you started to spin up with that antenna switchover. It was P00r timing on our part. So we're not sure just how the start went, but we're sure this one isn't going to work. So, at your convenience, if you'll restart another - or redamp the rates and stand by for our Go for another startup. Over. [Long pause]
Okay, Houston. Stand by. [Long pause]
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
If you stop near a roll angle of either zero or 180, that will give us better high bit rate to watch your rates.
Okay. Stu's coming up to the top now.
Roger. [Long pause]
Okay, Gordon. I'm up here. That one didn't take, huh?
No. It just headed right on out to the limit for some reason, Stu. [Long pause]
Okay, Gordon. How do you read?
Loud and clear, Stu. Go ahead.
Okay. So that one didn't take, huh?
Negative. It went right straight on out toward a limit on our plot here. We didn't get a good read-out of the - of the initiation of it, because we had that antenna switchover right at the time. I'll stand by until we get through this - into the next Omni here. [Long pause]
Okay. [Long pause]
Stu, this is Houston. How do you read now?
Okay. You're loud and clear.
Okay. I mentioned to Ed if you'll stop the roll on near zero or near 180, we'll have good antenna angle for high bit rate and can watch the rates that way.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston; 14.
Roger. As you're sitting there, your high gain is pretty well pointed at us. We'd like to bring it up to watch the start of this next attempt at PC - PTC. Would you go to Auto - and then select High Gain? [Long pause]
Okay, Gordon, it looks like we've got the High Gain.
Roger. We have it.
Apollo 14, Houston. You have a Go to start the spinup.
Okay, thank you.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
It looks to us like you might have missed one jet enable, Delta-2. Do you have roll coupled?
Roger. Thank you, Gordon. [Long pause]
14, Houston. Your rates are still good, if you want to give her a start.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
We're showing the O2 flow up a little bit to eight-tenths and suggest you might look around at the - all the overboard drains, valves, and make sure they're tightly secured. Over.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 14, Houston. Give us Omni Bravo, and you're clear to secure the high gain antenna.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
We see that the cabin pressure, which was down to near 5, is back up to 5 dec - 5.1, and the flow rate is decreasing now. Does this help you - give you any clues as to what the problem might have been? Did you find any loose valves? Over. [Long pause]
No, not as yet. We're having a problem with a sticky Myrtle. We're working [Garbled] equipment problem right now.
Roger, Al.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. I have a short shopping list of items for you here. First of all, the state vector on board there is in good shape and no update will be required as scheduled at 66 hours.
Okay.
And it's looking like midcourse 4 will be about 3.5 feet per second - 3-1/2 feet per second. And one question, on the lens - the 18-millimeter lens that you took over to use to take the pictures of the water dump. Just to help us keep track of where things are, did you bring that back and restow it in the Command Module? Over. [Long pause]
That's affirmative, Gordon. The lens is back and stowed in the Command Module, and understand midcourse 4 will be about 3.2.
Stu, that's 3.5, but that's close enough as - as close as we can tell now. The PTC is looking good. It's hanging in there and, well, maybe its too early to predict; it looks like it's going to take this time. There is some - an O2 heater reconfiguration shown at 65.10 in the Flight Plan to do and the presleep items on the checklist, and that's all we have before you retire for the day. Over. [Long pause]
Okay. We just, about 10 minutes ago, configured the heaters, and we're going to press into the presleep here momentarily.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 14. [Long pause]
Apollo 14, Houston. Were you calling? You are very weak. Over.
That's affirmative, Gordon. I'm ready for an E-memory dump. Can you take it with this comm?
I'm reading you just barely, Stu. Stand by. I'll check if we can take the E-MOD in this kind of antenna configuration. [Long pause]
Stu, we're going to have to wait a couple of minutes until a better antenna gets up.
Okay. [Long pause]
Apollo 14, Houston. We are ready at this time for the E-MOD. Over.
Okay, Houston. Here it comes. And, Gordon, I've got some onboard read-outs when you're ready. [Long pause]
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay, battery C, 37.0; pyro battery A, 37.4; pyro battery B, 37.4. RCS: Able, 87; Baker, 87; Charlie, 85; Delta - Delta, 86. [Long pause]
Roger, Stu. We copied all those. [Long pause]
And, Gordon, for a crew status, we're all in good shape and no medication.
Roger, Stu.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Looks like we've got the dump complete. And one question from EECOM. With this data configuration right now, he can't really tell if you cycled all the cryo fans. He just wanted a confirmation that you had. Over.
That's affirmative. The fans were cycled.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, 14 is signing off for the evening.
Roger, Al. Pleasant dreams to you all.
Thank you.
Apollo 14, Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over. [Long pause]
Hello, Apollo 14. Apollo 14; this is Houston. Over. [Long pause]
Houston, this is Apollo 14. Houston, Apollo 14. How do you read?
Okay, Ed. You are loud and clear. Sorry to disturb you, but we have been watching some parameters on the ECS. We watched the cabin leak down to 5.1 the last we saw and we've also noticed a - that the main Regs have opened as a result, and your O2 flow has been steadily increasing; last time we had high bit rate, it was about 4/10ths of a pound per hour. The PTC is being disturbed, but it still - is stable. We wanted to alert you to try to troubleshoot this leak before we throw the PTC out of bounds. What we'd like you to do is check all the overboard drain valves, one at a time. And, this time, we would like to try to tie down precisely which - which valve is the guilty one and so we would like - as you either tighten them or jiggle them or whatever you can think of - to do to the valves, do each one individually and give us time to watch the flow rate and see if we can tie it down. Over. [Long pause]
Okay. Stand by. [Long pause]
Houston, the Waste Management Dump valve is going to Off at this point.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Apollo 14, Houston. Go ahead.
Gordon, did you notice a step increase of the flow rate, or has it just been a gradually increasing thing over the last hour or so?
It's been a gradual increase; however, just - We've been watching the data after you told us you closed the Waste Management Overboard Drain, and we're seeing it drop down. That may be the culprit right there. Can you verify the configuration that you were in? Did you have the cap on the Myrtle; was that closed? And was the Waste Management Overboard Drain open? Prior to our waking you up? Over.
Well, the Waste Management Drain [Garble].
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Houston, 14. Go ahead.
Okay, Ed. We missed your answer to my question completely during the Omni switchover there. Over.
Roger. Your last question about the configuration of the waste management drain to the Myrtle?
That's affirmative; that question.
Okay. I guess - the Myrtle - the waste management system had been in use several times for the last hour, and if you saw changes probably fluctuating up and down, it was undoubtedly due to that system.
I see. You've used it several times?
That's affirmative.
That's - I mean - that's since - since you signed out for the night, is that right?
That's affirmative.
Right.
Right now the drain is closed, and it had been closed, reopened, and closed, at least twice since we signed off for the night.
Roger.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead.
The O2 flow has - dropped back down now. It's not come down; it - it still appears that the main Regs may be flowing a little bit. What we suggest is that you use the Direct O2 to pump the cabin back up to 5.7, and then go on back to sleep and we'll try not to bother you. The PTC looks like it should hold okay through the sleep period. [Long pause]
Okay, Gordon. That's fine.
Houston, this is Al.
14, Houston. Go ahead.
Hello, Houston. This is Al.
Roger, Al. We read you weak. Go ahead. [Long pause]
Houston, 14.
Ed, this is Houston. Go ahead. [Long pause]
Hello, Houston. Apollo 14.
Apollo 14, Houston. Loud and clear now. Go ahead. [Long pause]
Apollo 14.
Houston, Apollo 14. Do you read?
Roger, Apollo 14. This is Houston. You're loud and clear. Go ahead.
Okay. Two items. First of all, Al's got a sensor replaced. He wanted the medics to take a look at it, and pump the cabin up, shut off the Direct O2, and that flow is down to 2/10ths now.
Roger. Okay, yes, advise them we're still in Low Bit Rate and there will be a few minutes or a few seconds here before we can get High Bit Rate.
14, Houston; we're going to have to wait until we rotate around to an - an antenna angle that we can get High Bit Rate before we can check that sensor, but we'll give you a call in a minute or two when we're ready.
Okay. [Long pause]
14, Houston. CDR's biomed data looks very good, according to Dr. Berry himself.
Okay. I just changed the paste in the sensor and put a new sticky washer on the electrode [Garbled.]
Okay. They're - they're willing to sign you up for a permanent job at doing that, if you'd like to after the flight.
Well, we'll discuss it. [Long pause]
Houston, 14. If you're satisfied then, I'll return my comm configuration to the sleep configuration.
Okay. Let me make one quick check here. [Long pause]
Well, I guess that's all we've got. We'll say good night once again.
Thank you, Gordon.
