Apollo 14, Houston. You have a stay. We're still evaluating the orbit to give you the precise numbers. Over.
Good show. That sounds good to us. We're here.
We all thank you.
And, Gordon, are we clear to start our maneuver then?
That's affirmative.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
We've got you in a 9.3 by 59.0.
Okay. Sounds pretty good; 9.3 by 59.0.
Roger.
I guess we could make it down from here tomorrow.
Roger.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Ed. You're just now. We're just about to lose the antenna.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Roger, Ed. Go ahead.
Okay. Now for the first time we saw an Earthrise over the LM; we're sighting at you along the righthand rendezvous window, and it's a beautiful sight to see the Earth from here. And you are - just have risen over the LM number 4 quad - no, number 1 quad.
Roger.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
Looks like we're getting mighty low down here. It's an entirely different sight from the higher altitude. We're coming across the - we're just now over the Crater Gutenberg. At this point, it's out my back window.
Roger. We're following your course on the map here.
Those brown rocks - those brown mountains look like they have a nice soft blanket on them from altitude. They look very harsh, but the regolith looks smoother and more hummocky than quite so angular and sharp.
Roger.
Houston, we're just along side the Crater Isidorus at this point, and we're trying to follow this on the smaller chart.
Roger.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
In about 4 minutes, you'll be at your minimum altitude, which should be about 40,000 feet above the terrain. We're wondering how things look down there.
Well, I'm glad to hear you say we're that high. It looks like we're quite a bit lower as a matter of fact - below some of the peaks on the horizon, although that's only an illusion.
Roger.
The surface appears to be a lot smoother down here where we can see - closer to the detail and, of course, particularly at this higher Sun angle, it appears to be a softer surface, but it certainly is an unusual sensation flying this low.
Roger.
Houston, it looks like that I'm looking right up the angular rille by - in the Crater Hipparchus. This - this country down here is really rugged at this altitude. The rille looks like to me a drop had been dropped down 10,000 feet. It was just another map.
Roger, Ed.
Stu, you're about 25 seconds from picking up H-3.
Okay, thank you. I'm looking.
Houston, the scale is so deceiving we could be 500 feet in the air from the way this terrain looks Scale it down a little bit.
Roger.
I'm looking down inside the Crater Mösting.
Roger. And, Stu, your TCA, minus 20 seconds now.
Mösting is a bench crater with an almost vertical drop on the east side of it. one side the west side. And it looks like solid rock on both sides.
Roger.
And, soft regolith near - rubbly at all.
Roger.
Okay, Gordon. How do you read?
Loud and clear, Stu.
Okay. Well, that turned out to be a piece of cake. At a very low angle, Ed, located by coming off of points B and BA and about 51:05 or 51:10 on this clock, the elevation angle was enough that I could pick up Main Street. And, just for your info, using high speed, I could track it just smooth as glass all the way through even though we're in inertial attitude. And, it looks relatively easy. I think 14-2 ought to really be a piece of cake.
Roger; sounds good.
Gordon - the optics, even at this low altitude, tracking the landmarks is rather phenomenal. You can just keep it right on there at high speed, just as smooth.
Roger, Stu.
Stu, Ron is with me here. He was curious about how good the initial pointing accuracy of the optics is. Over.
Okay. Well, it - I think it was right on the money. When they first came up, it was pretty bright, and the background release on H-3, that ridge right behind it, did not show up out in the flat surface as much as I would have hoped. And, of course, I've got the LM there, too. I couldn't pick it up until the trunnion got down to about 31 or 32 degrees. The optics were right in the area. I think they were a little high. But, I came off, like I say, off of Mösting B and BA, and got - I picked it up at a fairly low elevation, I believe. And, then as soon as we came upon them a little bit, why we're right there. And, then I - then I tracked them with the high speed and I never gave it back to the CMC.
Roger.
Ed, this is Houston. And I have a map update for you, Rev 4.
Okay. Go ahead.
Roger. The 180 time is 88:46:55. LOS and AOS are within a minute. Over.
Okay. LOS and AOS within a minute, and the 180 is 88:46:55.
That's correct.
And, Houston, Houston; 14.
Go ahead.
Okay, Gordon. Even without being dark adapted, just coming off with my eye glued on the optics coming across the Sun, you can see a very definite horizon through the optics here in Earthshine. And - can pick out the - the rims of the - of the bright - bright craters and craters that do have bright rims on them. And - I'm sure if you were really dark adapted you could see quite a bit through the optics scanners.
Roger, Stu. That's - that's interesting.
Of course, with the naked eye, you can see excellent horizon and Earthshine. I'm looking, for example, to the south at the moment and have a very clear horizon in that direction.
Roger, Al.
And, Houston, looking to the north, we see the same view. It's a very sharply defined horizon. I can see the stars. I got a - a very soft gray, well-lit surface below without too many features. You can't see sharply, just - not distinctly; but nothing's probably lost.
Roger.
Okay, Gordon, the angles were torqued at 88:05 and I guess you got them.
Roger. 88:05. We got them.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
We'd like a word from you on whether or not you indeed got a guided shutdown on the DOI burn or whether you think you might have beat it slightly. Over.
I thought I made that clear when I gave you the burn report on the G&N shutdown. The Delta-V switches were turned very definitely after the cut-off of the G&N.
Okay, Al.
Your people have put this in full eyeball. We had two pairs of eyeballs watching that very carefully.
Roger, Al. Thank you.
Hey, Gordon. I'd say the PC was falling through about - at a maximum of about 25, when I moved the switches.
Roger.
(Music - "Truck Driving Man")
What is that?
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
About a minute to go to LOS. And one final reminder for Stu as he sets up the topo camera: don't forget to pull the pit pin.
Okay...
Okay. Gordon. Oh, ye of little faith. But no sweat. I'll holler a reminder.
Okay.
He could interpret that to mean don't give you those little reminders.
Now, there's a good song. What's the name of that son of a bitch?
"Truck Driving Man."
Can I put this under here? It's the only one I've got big enough to hold it.
Yes. Go ahead.
Okay.
I knew lunch was a little short today.
Well, they knew we were going to be busy.
Yes. Yes, we didn't (cough)...
We don't get any wetpacks tonight, huh?
I'm going to have to look again. I thought we did.
I'll check it.
Yes, I might use a blue bag tonight.
Well, I'm sure going to try. Hell, you...
Day - day - day 4, meal C?
Yes, that's those other ones we have...
It says a greef-and-bav - beef-and-gravy wetpack. Stu's supposed to have a beef-and-gravy wetpack.
And I'm supposed to have a beef-and-gravy wetpack.
Stu, you're supposed to eat wetpacks tonight.
Well, they gave me too much hot stuff.
We start over again after tonight.
Yes?
How many days of food do we have in there before we have to start making our own?
Would you pull our wetpacks out of there, babe?
Stu?
Huh?
We're supposed to have three wetpacks out of there.
Out of here?
Yes, beef and gravy.
(Singing)
Yes, that must have been the beef and gravy that I ate for lunch. I guess I'll eat that damn spaghetti.
I'll eat the spaghetti.
No, no; I - I'm not going to bitch about the food. I just won't eat it (laughter). I won't bitch.
Somebody watching my Flight Plan while we're...
Yes.
Watch your what?
What time do we do something?
We start maneuvering, 6 minutes.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Babies stay pretty cool in that stuff - place in there.
We're going to use the hot water only?
What?
Use the separator on the cold water - on the cold water only, right?
Yes, I think that's the plan.
Okay. Now let's see, you can put 3 ounces of hot in that baby. And I'll go up and unsnap the gun. Okay, that
Oh, okay.
May I have the scissors a minute, or are you using them?
What are you doing, hot or cold now, Stu?
He's doing the hot down there, Ed.
Okay. See if I get anything hot. Yes, there's a hot.
(Music)
Those guys actually sell any records of that stuff?
Those guys actually sell many records of that stuff?
He's got a TV show.
Really?
Yes, it's been on several years. It's the hillbilly Laugh In? I don't know if you ever happen to pass by...
Yes, we saw that the other night.
What? Hee Haw?
You know, it's getting kind of hot in here. Is it to y'all?
down to 70.
Flow's down, I don't know.
Probably ought to start a Verb 49 maneuver.
Okay. Now we can do.
Okay, it's going to be blunt end forward.
What?
Going to be blunt end forward. changing around.
Did they change that?
Yes.
I wonder why in the hell they waited until now to do that.
Seems kind of strange
I mean that son of a bitch has been out for a long time.
Yes.
Okay, we're in Rate Command; CMC, Auto. All the jets are on; B/D Roll. B/D Roll.
We're moving.
(Music - "I've got a Tiger by the Tail," Buck Owens )
(Laughter)
I can't understand it.
Are we doing what we're supposed to he doing, leader?
maneuver to 352.
Okay.
146, 355.
When do we get out the Hycon -
camera in 10 minutes.
(Music)
Another tissue box empty. I have to stow that -
Hey, Stu, will you grab that bag of yellow pills and toss them this way, please?
Get away from me, you noisy son of a hitch.
Huh?
I told that noisy son of a bitch to float around somewhere else.
You're not clear enough, I don't know, they got bad acoustics.
One thing about that, you can just let it float, and you can always find it.
Why don't you turn it off, there, and save the battery? I need the switch system. Throw the tape over. Or did you do that?
I'll get it in a minute.
Flip it over and hear the other side?
Yes, why don't you, if you don't mind. God, I didn't want to - didn't want to impose on you there.
Yes, we'll do it. Seems to be something I'm missing in this country music.
It's - Don't put the cap on it, Ed.
Huh?
Don't put the cap on it; I'll take it.
Are you going to - you going to put something in the bag or are you going to...
No, I was going - No, go ahead, if you're using it. I was just going to give Myrtle a drink.
I'm going to give me one, too. Oh, hell.
Why don't you let me use it while you're doing that?
Recorder end up down there with you?
Wish I'd had the camera out. I'd like taking a couple of pictures of those bright craters from that low orbit.
Yes.
With that dark -
(Music)
Who in the hell is that?
Oh, God!
(Music)
Now that's country music. That's not uptown.
You're right.
Nothing uptown about that.
Okay. We're here.
Mom, I couldn't have said I like that. Terrible!
Well, Stu? We better get with it, baby.
Better start configuring the camera. Finish dinner later.
Yes. Why don't you let me finish this?
one is terrible
Well, I went to all the trouble, I'm going to eat something.
food packs are stuck
That's a horrible record. Acoustics on it aren't any good.
In love.
Funny, this Flight Plan calls for - later on, it calls for blunt end forward.
What?
It calls for front end forward. Down here, later on, where it describes what to do, it calls for front end forward.
Ugh.
Burn 180 degrees.
BEGIN LUNAR REV.
Stu?
What?
180 degrees 1 minute
I'll give you a mark.
Okay.
Need some more of those.
Pardon?
Okay, everybody, it's zero minutes. General quarters stations for the LTC.
Five seconds -
Mark.
Okay.
Got to put that up in the tunnel?
Everything else can remain, can't it?
Yes.
We need a grounding wire for this thing any way. We used to have
Altitude chamber only.
This is big end forward, right?
Big end forward.
Okay. What in?
Okay.
Scientific Power switch, Off.
Off.
AC Utility Power, 201's Off.
It's Off.
Connect the vacuum line.
Okay. Power is Off. Mode to Standby.
Move your foot, Ed?
I don't really like this strap that goes on around the magazine, because I don't want to have to piddle with it. I'm taking it off. It's a nogoodnik. That's ground use only. I didn't even think they were supposed to be on - on the flight - camera.
With all the fuss wouldn't dare not have them on the flight camera. Okay, where does this go?
Okay, we got all the lines hooked?
Okay, read them off.
Okay, we've got the vacuum line, the overboard drain...
We don't have a vacuum line, yet. Okay, now we have a vacuum line.
All right.
The drain is open.
Connect the power cable.
Power cable is connected.
battery is connected.
Connect the control box.
Control box is connected.
Verify the Power, Off, and Mode, Standby
Off; Mode, Standby.
All right. Remove the pip pins and the lens cover.
Okay.
All right. We have to do checkout?
Yes. It says configure camera, CM 3, LTC, black, BE forward, shutter, frame, LTC installation decal, record the time, and LTC checkout decal. Okay.
Okay.
So let's do a - Have you finished the installation decal?
Yes. I'm ready for the checkout decal.
Okay.
Okay. I veri - You ready?
Yes.
I verify the camera is closed. Circuit breaker's closed.
P52, 146.
Okay. I'm going to turn on the
06 Noun 65.
Main B. Circuit breaker Scientific Equipment Hatch.
anybody want any 50 18?
Yes. Get that?
Yes.
Scientific Power is on. AC Power on 201, you can turn it on.
On 100?
201.
201, right.
All right. Turn your power on now, Stu. Mode, single.
Okay. Power, on. Mode is single.
Frame rate, eight per minute.
Okay, wait just a second here. Okay, frame rate is eight per minute.
Range, 10.
Range, 10.
Operate single frame for two frames.
Okay, the FMC's working. Frame counter went up one.
Mode to auto, three to five frames.
Okay. Auto.
Did you see it turn? Did you see the wheels turning over here, Ed?
I wasn't watching. I feel them. Okay, I feel them. Go ahead. Auto, three to five frames.
That was one, auto.
Okay.
Two, auto.
All right. Verify SFC. We have.
We have.
And frame-controlled operation. End-of-film light, out.
End-of-film light is out.
Okay, turn it, Stu; I haven't seen it.
Okay.
Mode, standby.
Mode, standby.
Power, off.
Power's off.
Checkout complete.
Okay. Let's get a time here off the clock. Okay, it'll be 87:66.
120.
06, 65, and I'll Enter on - 13:21. I -
Hack. Okay. That was 13 hours and 21, 2, 3, 4, 5 - 13:21. Coarse time.
What's the AOS time? page?
About 8 after.
Okay.
Coarse time. Time was - time was - was 13:21. 13 12, 13 - 13:21, 13:21 days. 7, 6, at a GET of 88:57:14.56. All right. Close up the camera What? All right. Okay, we configured the camera. Target 9, Descartes. We did not get a PAD, did we? Initial range's going to be somewhere around 51. As a matter of fact, initial range will be 51.7. 51.7 at T-start.
Did you get it up in time?
Oh, yes. We've got a long way to wait.
Okay, good.
Okay, configure camera shutter: 1/200ths; range is on the PAD, 51.7; intervalometer is 65. Going to bang them off one a second.
Okay, I verify 200ths; range PAD, 51.7; intervalometer; one and two frames; magazine W; frame number 5. LTC installation. Record time, 13:21, 766, 88:57:14. LTC checkout. Cycle CMC Mode, Free to Auto. I don't want - We don't need that since we - you scratched out a - It had been changed. Okay, we're not changing the DAP. Did a Verb 49 maneuver to 352, 146. We'll get a tweak on this, I'm sure; 146 and 355. We're configured for big end forward. It's in the number 3 window, and it is the LTC camera.
Okay, we'll get a tweak to the maneuver. We'll get a PAD, and we'll be in business.
I guess you don't have any yellow pills, do you?
One yellow pill.
Well, do you need it?
No. I got one. I brought it up here, but I got one on this cocoa
There's your right behind you.
Where do they have those, down in the pantry?
Yes. Okay. AOS.
because they're going to be passing PADs like crazy.
Well, we have the Moon back out, going by Tsiolkovsky. And we're jaded already. Two Revs and we don't even jump to the window on sunrise.
We've had our second meal around the Moon.
We what?
We've had our second...
We've had our first one.
Huh? When was the first one?
We were eating during our first Rev.
No, we weren't.
Hell we weren't! We were laying up here on the panel looking out the windows, and Al was passing food up. You were so excited that I guess you forgot it. That's what we were doing.
Hey, Ed. Let me copy that topo PAD, so I'll make sure I - I've got it.
Be my guest.
Yes, I want to -
You know, it sure does look like we're below the surface. You notice that, Ed?
What do you mean, Al? You mean to look out the window?
Yes.
Yes. It does.
Look at the horizon.
Like we're way down.
Some of those near craters stick up in the way of the far craters. Mighty low.
We ought to be able to see Cone Crater fairly easily, though, for whatever it's worth.
I think so.
Cone and Star and Sunrise.
Give me that AOS time again, Stu.
About 08 or thereabouts.
Well, it's already 09.
Well, that's a wag. It says about 08.
There we go.
Houston, Apollo 14. How do you read?
Apollo 14, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. Read you loud and clear here.
You're loud and clear, Ed, and...
We're standing by to copy map updates and photo PADs.
Okay. You're way ahead of me. Map updates for Rev 10. 180 is 100:09:52; the LOS and AOS are within a minute. Over.
Okay.
Okay, Gordon. We've got that; 100:09:52.
Okay, Stu. And the LTC photo PAD. Target 9, Descartes. I guess we gave you a new attitude some time ago, and we're going to change it slightly to - The latest version is: roll, 344; pitch, 145; and yaw, 350. T-start is 089:34:36. T-stop, 89:40:41. And I read six ranges going down the line. First one is 53.9, 55.2, 47.7, 40.7, 38.0, 34.9. Over.
Okay, Gordon. Reading roll, pitch, yaw: 344, 145, 350. T-start: 089:34:36. T-stop: 089:40:41. Ranges: 53.9, 55.2, 47.7, 40.7, 38.0, and 34.9.
Okay, Stu. Readback's correct. I have a TEI-12 PAD, when somebody's ready.
Go ahead for TEI-12.
Okay. We have a state vector; we'd like P00 and Accept, when you can give it to us for that.
You've got it.
Roger. Okay, TEI-12, SPS/G&N; 36702; minus 0.62, plus 0.21. TIG is 105:53:44.96; Noun 81: plus 3424.3, plus 1176.3, minus 0216.6; 181, 095, 020. Ullage is four jets, 11 seconds. Remark: burn undocked; and number 2 is - assumes no Circ. Over.
Roger, Gordon. It's TEI-12, SPS/G&N; 36702; minus 0.62, plus 0.21; 105:53:44.96; plus 3424.3, plus 1176.3, minus 0216.6; 181, 095, 020; four jet, 11; burn undocked, and assumes no Circ burn.
Roger, Ed. You make a good stenographer. The readback's correct.
Thank you. Boss tells me I don't have the looks for it.
Roger.
14, it's your computer.
Okay. We got it.
933, 36.
like hell.
Say again?
I said there's a lot of
And 23, 24, 25. on Standby.
One minute to T-start, Stu.
Roger. Power's on. Man, you got that lead time in just right, Gordon, for the transmission delay.
Okay. 34, 36. We go Auto and start the event timer.
Roger.
Here we go for the 16 crew.
2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
And she's running.
Okay. And we've got T-start here at 24.
Roger.
1, 2, 3
Range, 55.2, now.
One plus 23.
Range, 47.7.
21
Range, forty... point seven.
about frames 147 -
Strange.
Roger.
Roger. It seems to be functioning properly.
Huh?
It seems to be taking it up properly.
Change your range to 38.0.
Change your range to 34.9.
It's sticking. It's not taking...
No, I've got it. Stand by. 89:40:41 was T-stop.
Okay, Gordon. We got them. Let me write down something here. I want to talk to you about it.
Okay.
All right, Gordon. We took them, changed the - the ranges by the time - times listed in your call, but there was some strange noises coming out of the - the magazine. Both - both sP00ls worked, and the frame counter ran, and the FMC worked. But there was sort of a clacking noise on the - in the magazine. It came on between frames 140 and 180, then went back to the Normal Mode, and then started again at frame 240, and went until the end of the film pass. And I'm reading 420 on the counter, was reading 5 when I started. I used five for the checkout.
Okay, Stu. There was - was no change in operation when the - It looked like it was taking the pictures okay, just the funny noises. Is that all?
Yes. It - it - it did - it did look like it was going all right. Like I say, the film wound up, and the FMC continued to work. However, when I went to Standby at the end, the FMC kept trying to drive. And, now the Mode switch in Standby, and I turned the power on. Instead of just getting the one flap over to the side, we'll have the FMC like you do normally, it wants to keep driving.
Okay. Before you fold it up...
No, belay that, Gordon - Hey, belay that, Gordon. It doesn't - FMC does not keep driving, but that noise is - is still in there. May - maybe you can hear it here. I'll - I'll hold the mike down (machinegun-like noise). Okay. I don't know if you can get anything out of that or not, but that's with the sta - Mode switch in Standby and the power On. And, during that period of time, the FMC kicked a couple of times. It initially went off to the side like it does when you apply the power. And then, during that period of time that I had the transmitter down, the FMC did work twice with the Mode switch in Standby and power switch On.
Okay, Stu, before you fold it all up, if it doesn't get in the way there, why don't you let me check with the back room and see if there's anything they want you to - else they want you to look at there, and I'll get back with you.
Okay. And, another word here, with the - it did - like I - It worked normally up until about frame 140. But now, when I turn the power on; Mode, Standby, you get that - that clacking sound, and then intermittently the FMC kicks, and the frame counter moves, and we take a picture.
Roger. I understand that all wi - happens in Standby.
That's affirm.
Hey, I'm getting a great look at my low-altitude landmarks, Gordon, from this low pass here.
Roger, Stu.
Gordon, I can't even attempt to describe this, we're passing over it so rapidly. There's so much here to talk about.
Okay, Ed.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Stu.
Okay. I'm going to go ahead and maneuver to the rest attitude, if you're agreeable.
Stand by. I'll check to be sure it's okay with everybody.
Okay, Stu. You have a Go to maneuver.
Okay.
Stu, this is Houston.
Go ahead.
This is probably a - this is probably something you would have mentioned earlier, but we're wondering if there was any hint of that clacking noise on the other magazine that you checked out on translunar coast? Or was this the magazine that you used as checkout on translunar coast? I guess I can look that up myself. Over.
Well, to answer your questions, no, there was no sounds like this. I have never heard this on any training camera. It was not on the checkout during translunar coast. It was not on this camera - I mean on this magazine during the checkout. It did not start until approximately frame 140. It stopped at frame 180, and went back to what appeared normal. And it started again on frame 240 and stayed on until the end of the pass, when I was reading frame number 420.
Okay, right. We got all that copied, and we're still waiting on - on some kind of response from the experts here. So, we'll give you a call when they come back to us.
Okay. I'd just like to clarify that it appears - you know that the film wound all right. The frame counter moved, and the - that both the feed, and the take-up spools were turning. And, if it's any problem, it would have been, I suspect, in the FMC. Well now, that shouldn't have been in there. It's got to be in the magazine. I don't really know. I'm going to let you all worry about that one, I guess. But, the - It appeared that the film went through all right.
Okay. We'll get back with you.
Okay.
And, Houston; 14. I've got some onboard readouts.
Okay, 14. Sorry. I was tied up there. Go ahead with your readouts.
Okay. Bat C, 37.0; Pyro A, 37.2; Pyro B, 37.2. RCS: Able, 80; Baker, 82; Charlie, 80; Dog, 83.
Okay, Stu. Cau - got all those, and get a suggested checkout procedures for the LTC. Hear?
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. Talked to Dale Denais. He thinks its most likely something wrong in the magazine there. And, it could either be a gear train or a clutch in there that could be making and breaking. He suggests that you get out a magazine Victor once again and put it on there and leave it in Standby awhile to verify that it doesn't cycle - or - or the FMC doesn't sweep. And, if that looks okay, then go ahead and run off two or three frames and see if it appears normal.
Okay. I need to put that one on anyway. I'll put on magazine V, and I'll turn the power on and put it in Standby and see how it acts, and then run off two or three frames. And, along that line, this magazine, you know, was in Standby for a minute there - you know with the power on prior to start, and we got no noises. And I agree with diagnosis there. It - I'm sure it's in the magazine, or relatively sure. It sounded like it; felt like it. And, it did feel like something like a clutch slipping on the thing.
Okay. I hope we got the pictures anyway. And, let us know how the other one works.
Okay. I'll smoke on through that and give you a call.
Apollo 14, Houston. Would you give us a - an E-MOD before LOS here? You have about 7 and a half minutes to go.
Okay. You want it right now?
Okay. I'll...
Affirmative. We're ready.
give it to you now, Gordon.
Okay, Stu...
Okay. Coming down.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Apollo 14, Houston. Go ahead.
I don't - No, I'm not in down here.
You're not?
No, I'm not on the front. Maybe it was just the camera coming up, because it was riding up. Maybe I just needed to push down on it. That feels good. Oh, hell. Just a second, Al, I've got to raise the damn thing back up again to get -
No, it's cracked up here.
Maybe this is your problem.
Yes, it feels like maybe that. Okay. Let's bring her down now.
Well I'll be durned.
No, it's not -
There it is.
Now, there it is.
Good?
I'm good, if you are.
Good.
Okay.
What do you suppose happened there?
I think maybe that 65 frames a second is overtaxing the magazine or something. I think it's working. The magazine's taking up.
It started making that funny noise in here after it - The vibration
On - on the camera, during the - during the run. Now, on this last run, it did it when I went to the single frame, but I had just finished up three or four frames at 65.
Yes. Well, let's see. That's where you had it
need some water Somebody want a drink?
Yes. Okay. No. I'm going to try to use the bags. Sure you - That is the major item on my list.
You about ready to go to sleep?
Me?
I am. I am flat ready.
Okay, the canister comes out of where?
The LiOH canister comes out of where?
Nine into A, stow 7 and B-6.
Okay. 123 286
in B-6. 9 into A.
Okay, it's done.
Okay, I'm marking it off.
did you verify your tape motion, Ed?
Okay.
Ha, ha, ha. work on the DSKY now.
(Grunt)
(Sigh)
Oh, crap. That's not fair. We're getting here. Went and called up a Verb - or Noun 20, and now I've got to get rid of the son of a bitch.
Thought I'd do a Verb 37 00. It's going to kill that Verb 79 wide deadband I've got going.
Now how in the hell am I going to do that?
What do you got going? Do you have a 79 going?
Yes, and - without thinking I called up a Noun 20.
Yes.
Now I've got a Noun 20 on the son of a bitch.
Well, you want - you want to leave that on there
No.
How about a - 16 65. You're still using the same - count
Pitch is actually far enough off, but I'm afraid - Got - got about 20 off there in that piddling around (sigh). They wanted 286. Wanted a 10-degree deadband. T think I'm going to have to go back to that attitude. Verb 49 Enter. Yes, I'm going to have to go back to that attitude
How about a - How about a Verb 06? Is that
Well, I just don't think they want - any - Anything on the DSKY is going - going to take - have to exercise the read counters.
Get these jets off - off that change-of-pace plane.
Yes. It will kill the - it will kill the Verb 79.
Well, yes, but we'll need jets
Well, see, we used a Verb - we're using the Verb 79 here to get a 10-degree deadband for the sleep period.
Yes.
So I don't want to go back to the -
You mean you get gives you. a new is that right?
See what I mean?
Uh-huh, and we're there to 75, 80, 85, Okay. Let's - Enter on that. We've got a blank DSKY, and we're there.
You have blank - blank DSKY now?
I have a blank DSKY; it's going to fire when it hits the edge of this 10-degree deadband, and then we should be good.
Oh, yes. You all through?
I guess I'd call them - what? You got a minus 35, 272, and then REACQ, huh? Okay, 80 out of 90.
Want to use the Myrtle, Stu?
Yes. I expect - might as well.
Rate Command, Rate Command, Rate Command.
BEGIN LUNAR REV.
Okay. Got some yellow pills for the crew pantry, you suppose? Excuse me, Stu?
Oh, I'm sorry.
Where are the yellow pills?
There are the yellow pills.
Okay, you want to talk over about tomorrow?
Or do you want to get up a little bit early?
Huh?
Okay. From the time they have us getting up - They're going to wake us up at 99:30. Then - They're going to wake us up at 99:30; we've got an hour and a half listed for an eat period; then, they've got you putting on your suits. Are you all squared away on what you're going to take over?
I think, if we just give ourselves a little extra time, we'll be all right.
Yes. In fact, I've - Looking over this, I really don't see where we're going to be hurting.
Well, we still one guy, the other guy
You all don't wear helmets and gloves. You just take them with you?
That's right. That's right.
Yes. It won't take us long to get the tunnel clear.
That's wild, isn't it?
Sure is.
Well, okay. Is that everything in the Flight Plan?
Everything except chlorinate the water, as far as I can tell. Did you do the presleep checklist, Ed? You finished up the presleep checklist, comm and everything, didn't you?
Oh, really?
really.
Couldn't be much of now. Couldn't be much of now.
Yes.
What?
Okay.
should be minus 35. P72, right there.
Okay, Ed. Lunar orbit of sleep. That's lunar orbit of sleep.
Might be a problem.
Okay. Why don't we just get up a half an hour early. Stu? schedule that at 99:30. If that's for sure, why don't we get up at 99?
What time is that on the watch?
Eight hours to the minute.
Eight hours. That'll be 17:30.
That sound reasonable?
Huh? Oh, that's good. sounds all right.
That way we'll be sure.
(Cough)
Oh, did it ever!
All right Where am I? Oh, there I am.
If I can get out of your way here. I keep my feet tripped over.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston; 14.
Okay, Stu, you're loud and clear. That early AOS on the last Rev was our mistake. We were misled by a misset clock here in the control room. How did the LTC look to you after you tried the new magazine?
Well, I tell you what; we ended up with the same trouble; let me - let me run through and tell you you what it is. Let me get the Flight Plan out here.
Okay.
Okay, I put Mag B on the camera, and I ran it in Standby for about 2 and a half minutes, and everything worked fine. I then went - shot three frames at about - with the intervalometer set on 10, and it worked fine. And then, I thought, well, maybe it's the fast-frame rate; so, I put it on 65 and shot off five or six, and it worked okay. Then, I went to Standby and then on to Single-Frame and punched the single frame and got the same noise. And then, it started - the magazine started actuating in - in Standby with the power on. So, I turned the power off, ran the intervalometer back down to 10, turned the power back on; still had the noise. And the magazine appears to follow the intervalometer setting, but it may do this on a random fashion while in Standby. And it does move the film, or at least the - both sP00ls move and the counter moves. And it had that same clacking sound - not really a clacking sound, but I guess it's kind of hard to describe; maybe that's as good a term as any. And so, I turned the magazine off. By this time, I had shot 20 - 20 frames - 23 frames and decided that was enough film to waste. I really didn't mean to use that many, but I was trying to check out that 65-per-minute intervalometer setting.
Okay, Stu, that's a good summary of what you did. Personally, I more mystified than before. And we'll let them work on that some more.
Okay, I guess, in summary, we got the same problem with both magazines. Now - maybe the film is working all right; maybe we are just getting - getting a strange noise in there on the gears or the clutch as you suggested. But we've ended up now with both magazines having the same symptom.
Roger, understand. We'll think about it while you are sleeping, I guess, and maybe have some fresh ideas in the morning. For your general information, the - Your pericynthion was slightly high, but it seems to be coming down faster than we anticipated it would with each Rev; with the result that at PDI time, you ought to be right on the money, as near as we can tell. So it's pretty good work on that point.
Okay, that sounds real good; I guess I - I was a little surprised at the 0.6 residual from the G&N. You know, the impulse burn was a little lower than that, but I guess somebody - it doesn't bother anybody. And, yes, it looked like a real great burn to us, and it sounds like good news about being right there for PDI.
Okay, and one thing for Ed: his biosensor seems to be acting up. We'd like him at his convenience, some time before suiting up tomorrow, to go through the same sort of checkout that Al did earlier in the flight on his sensors. Over.
Okay, I'll pass that on to Ed.
Okay, that's all I have on my list at the moment. Over.
Okay, I guess we've got nothing else here. We're going to try to get secured for the big day tomorrow, and we'll be seeing you in the morning.
Okay, I'll make one check to make sure we haven't got anything else before we shut up and let you get some sleep.
Okay.
Okay, Stu. One - one other thing. We did get that E - E - E-MOD before we went AOS, okay; and, I guess - Wait I just think there - there is one thing. Just stand by.
Okay, we would like you to turn the optics off tonight. That should do it. Get a good rest there. Over.
Roger; we'll get the optics off before we go to sleep, and we've been doing that. And yes, I guess, if you've got any other questions on that - on the Hycon, I'd entertain them now to help you with the troubleshooting, but that's about it. We'll see you tomorrow.
Okay, good night.
You want the towel, don't you?
What the hell. I thought I had a used towel over there.
anyway.
Here, here's a towel.
Okay.
Well, you're supposed to do like I'm thinking, not what I say.
And let me have the water gun. The top is on it.
Yes, that ought to do it.
What?
No, put the - put the casing back on it, and use it to twist it off.
What? You shouldn't - as long as you don't have anything in that casing; you're not pushing in on the needle.
Hey, I think the more - I think from here on out, I'll chlorinate the water (laughter).
Okay, thank you. Appreciate that (laughter).
It's amazing how fast you can change your orientation.
Yes.
Man, I looked out here a little bit ago - two Revs ago as we were coming out of the darkness - farside terminator, looking down there - and I - and I didn't know how I was oriented or how - which way the terminator was even running, and it looked just exactly like you were falling straight down - into the surface.
Yes, I'm ready.
Huh?
I'm ready.
I just saw a flash - with my eyes wide open.
BEGIN LUNAR Rev-6.
BEGIN LUNAR Rev-7.
BEGIN LUNAR Rev-8.
