Kitty Hawk, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, Stu. We've got you on a different channel now than the LM. For some reason, we're getting a little bit of noise out of your downlink. But did you relay everything that was going on - or hear everything that was going on?
Yes, man. I sure did.
Okay. Mighty fine.
They really put her in there.
Hey, Ron, let me know when I can talk without disrupting things. It quieted down, now?
Yes. It's all quieted down, and your downlink's on another channel; so, no problems. So, you're clear to talk.
Okay. On this - Say again.
Roger. You're cleared to talk.
Oh, okay. Hey, that LTC camera's still acting up the same way; I tried both nonessential Bus positions, and I cycled all the connectors - could see no visi - visible damage to the pins. I did look at that slit in the shutter, and the first two times I actuated it, it stayed pretty much over 1 inch from the edge. And then, the next couple of times, it stopped about 2 inches from the edge -one each time a different edge, but out about 2 inches, maybe just a little more. It still has the clacking sound; it still wants to - intermittently fire off a frame in standby, even with the frames per minute set on zero. And I did not take the LTC photo target 16; I figured that Gordon had implied that it might be a waste of film to shoot them this way; I thought maybe we could get it fixed, we could save the film. I did shoot the landing because I figured, even if it is working - that one we wouldn't have another chance at. And I fired 39 frames off of magazine B on the landing per the pad. I don't know whether it will turn out or not, because it - it clanked and fluttered the whole time.
Okay. We copy that, Stu.
Okay.
One thing I might ask you there. Did you try trying the power switch On and Off any time when it was clicking away there.
Yes, I did. I cycled that. I cycled the nonessential Bus switch while it was running. Saw no change at all from Main A to Main B. And once you apply the power, it - it goes into its MAG and does its thing there, regardless of whether you have the Mode switch in Auto, Standby, or Single, and whether or not you turn the Power On and Off again. Generally: now, when I came up to shoot the landing, when I turned the Power switch On a minute before the T start, it clanked all the time but didn't fire off any frames. And during the - minute plus a few seconds path there, it just kicked one, going off as it should every -one every 2 seconds. So the thing's kind of random; I can't seem to get a pattern on it.
Okay. We understand that, Stu. And it still acts like - we got the thing to foul up by a low dc voltage on the thing down here on the ground. And, like you say, if it's got the voltage up on the thing, it seems to work.
Hey, along that line, Gordon implied that low DC voltage ought to have a flickering Power On light; and that's not true. Mine appears to be steady.
Okay. I copied. And, Stu, I've got a bunch of P24 PADs here for you. Better start copying them, I guess. And also - -
Okay. Hey, let me fire off this 52, and then I'll be right with you.
Okay.
Okay. Ron, let's go to work on the PADs.
Okay. How about trying for the High Gain, Manuel and Medium, Pitch of minus of 73, Yaw of 11.
And Kitty Hawk; Houston. When you get it, start with RP-3 on page 13.
Okay. I've got you now. Can you read me, Ron; the signal strength doesn't look too good.
Okay. The yaw - try a yaw of 25 degree.
Okay. You still with me, Stu?
Yes, I've still got you here. Yaw 25's a little too much. Let me play with it just a second.
Okay, Ron.- That looks like about the best I'm going to do. That good enough for you?
Okay. I think it looks pretty good down here, now. And ready to start on RP-3. Still got about 9 minutes, yet. Okay, T1, 109:57:54; T2, 110:02:44; 110:04:24; 110:05:12; north 5 and...
Okay. RP-3, 109:57:54. Go ahead, Ron. Let's run them all through, and then I'll read them back.
Okay, good. RP-5: T1, 110:08:45, 110:13:35; 110:15:15; 110:16:03. It's on track. Okay. The Daguerre 66. T1, 110:30:11; 110...
Hold it. Start Daguerre over again. You broke up.
Roger. Okay, the Daguerre 66 T1 is 110:30:11; 110:35:01; 110:36:41; 110:37:29. It's north 22. Okay, ready for P20 - Landmark 14-1.
Okay.
T1 is 110:46:15; 110:51:05; 110:52:45; 110:53:33. It's north 6, and, of course, it'll be 14-1 for the Noun 89.
Okay, Ron. You broke up on TCA and T3.
Okay. TCA on 14-1, 110:52:45; T3, 110:53:33. North 6; Noun 89 is 14-1.
Okay. 14-1, 110:46:15; 110:51:05; 110:52:45; 110:53:33; North 6, 14-1.
Roger. Readback correct.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Request P00 and Accept there, and we'll give you a state vector.
Okay. You have it.
And, Kitty Hawk; Houston. Got a map update for the REV 15 on page 13.
Go ahead.
Roger. 180 degrees is 109:47:59.
109:47:59.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Computer's yours, now.
Okay. Thank you, Ron.
Okay. Kitty Hawk, Houston. About 45 seconds to LOS; we'll see you on the other side.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. About time to start the camera on RP-5e?
Houston, 14, How do you read?...
Houston, 14. How do you read?
Roger. Loud and clear, Stu.
Well, how are the troops in Antares making out? Do we have an estimate on the landing spot yet, Ron?
Okay. They're pressing on with all their checks down there. And everything is still real good. They've got a Stay.
Real good.
How far from the spot? Did they come right in on the first pick?
Say again, Kitty Hawk.
Roger. Are they right on the target?
Yes, I think so. From what we can tell they just passed over the north crater of Triplet, and on down the stream just a little bit, but Just a little bit short of the target, I think, initially. They haven't started the - their descriptions yet, though. I haven't gotten the word yet on exactly where they are.
Oh, okay.
Houston, 14 - Kitty Hawk.
Houston, 14 or Kitty Hawk.
Roger. Go ahead, Kitty Hawk.
Hey, Ron, got any word on how the low altitude track on 14-1 and high altitude compare?
Let me see if I can get that, Stu.
Okay.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, big...
Roger. You're kind of down in the mud, Stu. But your high altitude tracking was excellent, and we've changed the landing site from a previous estimate there, 1400 feet in latitude, and zero in longitude. We've only got three real-time marks on the low altitude, but it compares real favorably with the high altitude stuff, so far.
Well, now the other marks, on the low altitude, Ron, on the - on the tape, that right?
Yes. That affirm. They were on the tape, and it took us awhile to get that dumped on the tape, and then - so we're just now getting the tape data.
Okay.
And, Kitty Hawk; Houston. You've got about 30 seconds to T1 time for Daguerre 66.
Okay. Thank you.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. You can start your camera.
Okay.
Okay, Stu; Houston here. You're coming up on the T1 time.
Okay.
Okay. Time to start your camera there, Stu.
Ron, she's running; thank you.
Okay. And when you finish up there as you're - whipping on across the landing site, those guys are so close to it, you probably can?t tell the difference from up there.
All right, Ron. I tried to change the camera and put the sextant on and take a look at the site.
Ron, I tried to change the camera and put the sextant on and take a look at - the site; Cone Crater went by just as I got the sextant up.
Okay. Couldn't understand what you said that time, Stu. Just for your information though, Antares is locked onto you with her radar.
Okay. What I said was, that soon as I finished up on 14-1, I tried to get the sextant in, in time to look at the LM; but, by the time I got it in, Cone Crater was just passing out of the field of view.
Roger. I understand. We'll catch them one of these other REVs.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston; Kitty Hawk.
Roger. We'll stand by for the magazine percentage there after - on the landmark tracking magazine.
Okay. I saw it 62 percent.
Roger. Sixty-two percent?
Yes. That's what it looks like.
Okay. And once you get in attitude, we'll use this high gain procedures: Manuel and Medium Beam width.
All right.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Request Omni Alpha until we get into the attitude.
How do you read, Houston? Kitty Hawk.
Roger, Kitty Hawk; loud and clear.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. I've got some map updates, and your zero phase PADs for you.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. On page 16, there. Map update, REV 16; 180 is 111:46:20.
Okay, 111:46:20.
Okay, your zero phase PAD to backward.
Go ahead.
Roger. Roll, 197-4; pitch, 001.4; yaw, all zips; T-start, 111:59:43. And make a note there that your switch time will be 8:07- Over.
Okay, 0197.4, 001.4, 000; T-start, 111:59:43; switch time at 8:07.
Roger. And on page 18 now, your zero phase PAD forward.
Okay.
Okay. Roll, 344.7; pitch, 240.1; yaw, all zips; T-start, 112:36:00. And make a note there that your new switch time is 9:58.
Okay. 344.7, 240.1, 000; 112:36:00; and switch time, 9:58.
Roger. And just a reminder to be sure and get it on your tape up there. The verbal marks at your first and last intervalometer actuation.
Okay. Thank you.
is 958.
Okay, 344.7, 240.1, 000, 112:36:00. And switch time 958.
Roger. Just a reminder to be sure and get it on your tape up there - the verbal at your first and last intervalometer actuation.
Okay. Thank you.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston; Kitty Hawk.
Okay, we're about to LOS here, Stu. Get some good gegenschein photos when you go around the corner there. If you want to write these down and stick them on your site map there, it looks like they're located - located at Charlie Quebec, 0.5 and 65.4.
Okay, got Charlie Quebec 0.5 and 65.4. And we'll get the gegenschein. This new window shade sure looks great, Ron. And fits on - back on the camera real good. Just to be doubly safe, I just got through taping floodlight - right up by the window.
Hey, beautiful.
And, Houston; Kitty Hawk.
And Houston, Kitty Hawk.
Go.
Hey, Ron. Has - Is somebody thinking up an - any words about our Descartes photography? Does it look like the Hycon's wiped out; are we going to do the COAS or - Any decision on that?
Hey, Ron. Is somebody thinking up any words about our Descartes photography. Does it look like the Hycon's wiped out, or we going to do the COAS or -any decision on that?
We're working on it right now, Stu.
Okay.
And - somebody... does it look like the Hycon's wiped out?
Left, left, and...
That son of a bitch.
Okay, we're getting ready to start the zero-phase observations on target 1. I'm now running - DET was started at - T-start at 111:59:43 and I'm waiting to try again.
First target at 8:07.
5.
Okay, starting at 9:05.
yet. If not... -
And approaching 4 minutes.
Okay, there are my targets. Targets A, B, C.
Okay, standing by to start the time. That's 5 minutes.
Mark, Intervalometer going. Okay, I have targets A, B, and C. C will be the first into the zero-phase. Picked them up without any difficulty at all.... anyway. Intervalometer... again.
And A, B - Okay, looks like C is Just about ir. zero-phase now. And I really have lost C at zero-phase. That's a pretty good picture there. As it moved into zero-phase, it was essentially wiped out.
Now it's coming back out again.
Okay, B. You just almost lose B going to zero-phase. I can tell where it is by the other craters -pointing at it. But, if you didn't have that help, it'd be tough.
And now we're going into - A's going ir. toward zero-phase. In fact, I'm quite surprised how washed out they do become. I had anticipated I would be able to stay with them a little more than that.
Well, we're going - It's 7 minutes, so A will be moving towards zero-phase. And it's pretty much the same story. Zero-phase is that - is that condition - it - it really - Kind of surprising how it - how it wipes it out, I think you can tell the general area, on B in particular, that with the lead-in, you could - you could find it. With -with B, it's pretty much totally wiped out at -at zero-phase, and A had a little better landmarks around it.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. You ought to be switching to your second target.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. You ought to be switching to your second target.
Okay, I'm switching to second target new..And A shows up extremely well. B is - you can see 3 here now. It's just starting to go into - into zero-phase as it moves on up. But B is a - 3's a mighty rough target, even without zero-phase.
And you can - you can hang onto A pretty well. B - B, just - I just didn't find long enough to give a good - a good impression on that one - on that one, I guess, overall, I'd rate it - at -
But A in - in target 2, you can almost hang onto B in target 1 -
Now, of course, target 2-B is hard to find even under good conditions, so - but it'd be impossible at the - at the zero-phase point. And I'm going to quit now, and I'll give you a little summary here. I'll rate these as I - by the criteria that we set up. Okay, on target 1, I'd rate C -
Okay, I'm going to turn off the intervalometer. No. Let it run for another 20 seconds. But I - I'm so far out, I - I really can't - It says you got to let the DAC run until 12:24. Okay. All right, I'd rate - I'd rate C in area 1 - I'd rate C as low; B as medium, and A is - is low; 2-A, medium; and B, very low.
I think what would really help you is - is relief around, like C was out pretty flat. And then, when It got zero-phase, it pretty well wiped it out. But - okay, and on my mark, the DAC will be going off. Stand by.
Mark. I let it slip one.
Mark. There, that was the last picture on targets 1 and 2,
And just a little more on the debriefing, I think if there's some relief around, it helps you quite a bit. Like C was out flat, and you'd lose it. B, I had the good chain of craters going into it, so you could pick that up, and - and A, also. It was the landmarks that really - really had you pick it up. But when it's out flat, it just washed it out completely.
Okay, Houston, Kitty Hawk,
344.7, 340.9,...
Hello, Houston. This is Kitty Hawk.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Kitty Hawk. How do you read?
Kitty Hawk. How do you read?
Okay, I got you now. How was good old target 2, there?
Well... I never saw B at all, and A... pick up... zero-phase, B was just completely wiped out.... clue is... some relief by you, even in zero-phase... best of the three.., pretty well hang... and A was about...
Well, I'm afraid you're right, Ron. It was pretty tough, I never saw B at all and A - I think - is pretty far down. I was pretty surprised at target 1, generally, the targets, A, B, and C are very easy to pick up; but in zero phase, B was Just completely wiped out. I think the clue is heading down the flat - if you have got some relief by you, even in zero phase, you know, you can sort of use that as - to help you on in. But in zero phase, B was pretty well bombed out. D was actually the best of the three and if you can pretty well hang on in, you can pick it up, if you use the other craters as a lead in and A was about - he was -... and during zero phase that whole... really washed out.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. We are getting too much background noise here. I really couldn't understand anything you said there.
Well...
Well, why didn't you stop me? Okay? get it all on the tape - I'll put this other... on the tape, also then. Well, I guess it'll have to be running. Are you going to leave the tape running during this next...?
Okay... on the tape... this other...
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Why don't you go ahead and leave the tape running here. We sure can't make out what you're saying down here.
Okay, Kitty Hawk. Houston here. We took the... out; maybe we ought to get rid of some of the banging. How do you hear me now?
loud and clear...?
Oh, you're loud and clear. What did you take out?
Well, something that's supposed to cut out part of the static. It does cut down on the static, but everytime the signal strength gets a little bit low, it also bangs. So, I couldn't hear you. I took those out and now I can hear you loud and clear.
Okay, you've always been loud and clear...
Okay, you've always been loud and clear here. No problem at all.
Roger.
Okay, Ron; are you going to let the tape run for these - during this next sighting?
Okay, Kitty Hawk. Houston.
Go ahead, Ron.
Okay, Stu. The comm is a little bit marginal down here, but what we would like to do is leave the tape running until after this next zero phase, but also talk to the ground if you will and then maybe we will have some comments back for you. And then we should get it in one place or the other for sure.
Okay, very good.
And Houston, Kitty Hawk. You want me to terminate the charge on B and start one on Able?
That's affirmative, Kitty Hawk.
Okay.
Okay, Stu. You've got about 30 seconds to start time.
Okay, thank you.
Okay, thank you.
Okay, Stu. About 30 seconds to turn the camera on. Give me a hack when you turn it on.
Okay, I'll do that.
Okay, I'll do that.
And stand by.
And stand by.
Mark. Camera's running. Five minutes. Okay, and now I can pick up to Ptolemaeus, to Ptolemaeus A, and I can pick up Bright Crater. Yes, even at this low elevation, targets A and B show up real well. The trouble of it is, it doesn't look to me like the camera's on target, but - They're a little too far to the left. But, anyway, I can't see targets -both targets A and B by themselves. I guess I used that little bright crater up by B, maybe as a gouge, but it showed up pretty well. There's no problem on acquisition, Houston. Appear to just be getting better as I - as I come up in elevation. Of course, I guess it wouldn't surprise me to come up cere and see that I picked up the wrong target.
Mark. Camera's running...
I really don't think this camera's pointed right, Ron. It's boresighted right down - looks like the junction between Ptolemaeus and Alphonsus. But, anyway, my - both targets A and B - had no trouble acquiring these and no trouble sticking with them. Even A is the - the hardest; it's not quite as straight, Now B had a - had a bright rim and showed up at the very start of the - of the observation. A is - is a little more subdued, but it was quite easy to pick up and hang on to. And that's - that's really a no-sweat on - on this one, much - much easier than the - those on the backside. In fact, I rated some of those with zero. And I'd have to give them up on - on both these targets - Cone Crater.
And the hard part is over, once you acquire them at that low elevation. In fact, the elevation is as difficult as - any sort of Sun problem, That would be here, as we go - go towards the zero-phase; I guess it's probably still about 08:40 and I'd guess about 40 minutes to go. It's still hanging in there right now. No - no problem at all. Particularly B, it's - it hasn't the - the bright surface on the center across the crater -that makes it that much easier. Let's see, I can see the zero-phase. And I guess the camera was pointing at it as we get up here closer. And I can see zero-phase now, approaching target A, so this should be a - a good test. Been no problem to acquire up to now.
There's zero-phase just about on A, and the camera took the picture. Okay, we went through zero-phase on A with - with no problem - hanging on to the landmark itself.
Zero-phase is passing B - at this time. And it, again, is definitely no problem.
And now, as we come cut of the - out of the zero-phase, it gets constantly better, of course. And I'll be switching targets at 09:58. It's 09:24 now. Both targets at Ptolemaeus are ready to pick up. Of course, it's no problem now picking those up.
Okay, Kitty Hawk; Houston. You can start on STOP on that one, and switch to target area 4. We can't hear a thing you're saying down here, but keep talking - We'll get it on the tape.
Okay, we're going to switch now and take a look at - at Parry. And - actually, this one here is again extremely easy. You can pick up both -both targets A and B as soon as you see it, r.c sweat. I think you'd use the - of course, you'd use the - Parry and Parry M to guide you into the area. But once you got into the area, why. A and B just stand out so good that, here again, it's -primarily - it's - the elevation angle helps, because we're up a little higher and - and, also, the bright crater stages show up extremely well. It's like you got the crater with a bright rim. It really helps with low elevation.
In fact, zero-phase is approaching - approaching the area now. And both targets are - are hanging in there.
Camera went just right at zero-phase. And here again, it was extremely easy to recognize the targets - this would be - really, again, a nosweat proposition to pick the targets up. Zero-phase - really doesn't have that big an effect on -on these two targets.
Okay. And now, I'll stop and rate them here; seems like a good time, I guess target A was extremely good all the way along. Target B, also, was quite easy to recognize. But here again, prim - primarily because of the - of the Sun shining on the - on the crater rim. An older, more diffuse crater would be more difficult to pick up, but with those -with those bright - bright rims - bright side to -both targets A and B, it was really no problem. Okay, And my last picture, I will give you a mark. When it goes off, it'll be a little past 12:32.
And -
Mark. Last picture on target 4, Camera is off.
Okay. I'll get to moving here, and then I'll pick me up at - oh, maybe between 50 and 58. First frame number should be eight.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Will you try to pass down the frame number off of the zero phase stuff?
Okay. Frame number is 58.
Say it again.
Frame number is 58.
Roger. Understand 58.
Okay. Just a couple of more comments while they're fresh in my mind. I think there was a big difference between the frontside and the backside passes, and that's primarily because, on the - on the front side, we're picking out craters that were out in a flat area. And they had the rim up behind them to - to guide you in on it. I think you'd - you'd use the - the large, gross features to get you pointed in the right area of the - of the mare or the flat surface, and - and then, the - the rim of the crater would - would - would show up. And you could guide in on it. Both those craters at Parry were quite fresh; they had a bright rim, The target A in the Ptolemaeus was fairly subdued - but still, yet, it did show up, and you could hold on to it right through zero-phase. So, let me see, I' c. rate -
I'c. rate both - both targets 3 and 4 - high.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. I've got your map update for REV IT and the zodiacal light photo PAD.
Stand by just 1, Ron.
Okay, Ron; go ahead.
Okay, Stu. Again, I could just barely read you; but your map update for REV IT: 180, 113:44:40.
Okay; 113:44:40.
Roger, that's correct. Okay, zodiacal light photo PAD T-start, 113:18:03.
Okay, 113:18:03, zodiacal light T-start.
Roger; that's correct.
I guess our comm didn't hold out through that, did it, Ron? Seemed like I heard you - heard it drop out.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston; Kitty Hawk.
Okay, Stu. As you know, when you come around the other side here, we?re going to want to dump the DSE to get your zero-phase stuff. So, if you'll come over the hill in these attitudes - You ready to copy?
Okay, stand by. Hey, I noticed the a - the tape was barber-poled. I don't know if it went during the second - or not - zero phase; did you stop the tape after the second zero-phase pass?
That's affirm; we stopped it and rewound it.
Okay, that's what I was afraid of. I was afraid it might have run down - okay, thank you. Give me some attitudes.
Okay. Roll, 060; pitch of 304, yaw of 0. Your High Gain angles will be Pitch, plus 33; Yaw of 279. And you can start the maneuver to that attitude after you complete your zodiacal light stuff.
Okay, I'll start a maneuver after the zodiacal light of 060, 304, 000. Set up the High Gain on a Pitch of plus 33, Yaw of 279-
Roger; and, as you can know, that's just 60 degrees out and roll from the LM visual attitude.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay, Stu; I gave you some bum dope there. We just stopped the tape at the end of the zero-phase stuff; we did not rewind it, so you can go ahead and use it on the back side.
Okay.
Your comm's good now; I don't know why it wasn't real good there during zero phase.
Yes; well, I got you on the High Gain now.
Oh, okay; that's why (laughter).
Yes, it does help.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Just for your information, EVA preparation seems to be progressing normally down there at the Fra Mauro area. And they'll probably be out on the surface when you come around the other side.
Ah, very good. Did they say anything about the terrain, Ron? It seems like I heard them say they were - something like an 8-degree roll angle or something.
Yes, that's right. And it's a little rougher than what they thought it was going to be down there. That was just a general comment on the terrain.
They comment on how steep it looked - to get up the Cone?
Hey, Stu; Cone's about 5 o'clock, and they really weren't looking at the slope as they came down across there (laughter).
Oh, that's right. Yes, sorry about that.
No sweat.
I already had them outside.
Okay, Stu; you got about 30 seconds to T-start time.
Okay; thank you.
A-3, C-4, B-3. A-3. C-4 - Okay, Ron. A-3, C-4, B-3, D-4.
Okay, Stu; we'll see you on the other side.
Okay, Ron.
Okay. Make sure she's running.
Verify...
Configure camera - the right one,...
Okay, On the zodiacal light: The - after the first 20-second frame, I got out of shut - sync on the shutter, and I fired off two more frames before I got down to - to 10 seconds. And then I went to 10 seconds and then 5 seconds, in order.
And I was also a little late getting started. I started at about 6 minutes, instead of 5. And I'll get these others on time here; 8:20, we're looking for.
Open.
27, 37. Okay, three - three on 10 -
Okay. Two on 5?
Okay. The 8:20 went just as advertised; 20, 10, and 5. So far, the only thing extra was the -one on the - first one.
16, 8, and 40n 11: Uo.
11:40, 16, 8, and 4.
11: 40, 16, 8, and 4.
Record 11:40; 28, 29 - 16...
Okay, I'm in sync. Okay, next one's 8.
Eleven, okay, at 24,
Okay, I got out of sync. I'm going to repeat the 40n the 11:40 - plus. Okay,
Okay, That's got it, That was an extra frame on the 11:40 sequence.
Aaah (sigh).
13, 14, 15:00. Okay. I'm In sync; 16, 8, and 4,
Okay.
And there's number 4. Okay. There's two extra ones here. Let me give you another good 4.
Okay. That takes care of the 15:00, with two extra shots in there.
4, and 2,
Okay, I'm in sync; there's the Moon. Should be in sync. Okay, I'm in sync.... Okay. We have 8, 4, and 2.
21:40, one frame at 8,
Okay. I took an extra 4 there, also. I wasn't sure whether the thruster fired.
Okay, 25:00; 4, 2, and 1.
