Hello, Kitty Hawk. Good morning, Kitty Hawk. This is Houston. Over.
Hello, Houston; Kitty Hawk.
Hello, Stu. Good morning. You're loud and clear.
Roger. Same here; must have been a good comm attitude.
Roger. I guess we're coming up in about roughly 15 minutes starting this bistatic radar; and I have some PADs to get up plus a little discussion; so, if you'll grab the Solo Book, I'll give you a couple of them right now.
Okay. I've got it.
Okay. Got an update, REV 26, for page 33.
Go ahead.
LOS is 131:05:17; l80 at 131:30:08; AOS, 131:51:34. Go ahead.
Okay. 131:05:17, 131:30:08, 131:51:34.
Okay. You got that one okay. Same page, the vertical stereo photo pad: T-start, 131:44:21; T-stop, 132:32:42. Over.
Roger. 131:44:21, 132:33:42.
You got that one okay. And the page before, your consumables update. Put a GET of 129:55; RCS total, 64 percent; quad A, 67; Baker, 61; Charlie, 66; Delta, 63. H2 tank 1, 56; tank 2, 56; 02 tank 1, 79; tank 2, 78; tank 3, 26 percent. Over.
Okay. 129:55; RCS total, 64; quads, 64, 67, 61, 63; H2, 56, 56; O2, 79, 78, 26.
Roger. That's correct, Stu.
Stu, this is Houston. Would you give us P00 and Accept, and we'll give you a state vector.
Okay. You have it.
Stu, this is Houston. Do you have time for a little conversation?
Yes, go ahead.
Okay. As far as the plan ahead for today, REV 25 and 26, there are no changes in the Solo Book. We need to know if you, by any chance, got up early and did anything more to the Hycon in the way of the procedures that Mattingly gave to you last night. If you didn't, anyway, ww need to find out the answer on the Hycon by the next REV or so, so we can choose the plan that we're going to take depending on the status to get Descartes photos. Over.
Well, I planned on doing that, but I didn't make it, Gordon. I'll try to get to it just as soon as I can.
Okay. I guess he probably went into great detail. The main thing is to determine if the shutter looks like it's working right. And if the shutter is working right and it's advancing film, even though it's making noise, they'll tell us it's worth at least trying to use it. If the shutter is not working, we'll No-Go it and just go all the way with the Hasselblad 500 millimeter.
Okay. I'll try to get on it.
And at any rate, we're going to take at least one pass with the 500 millimeter to be sure. Also, we're looking like we may give you a stowage change to improve L/D. That will be coming later if we decide that it's necessary. And there is a change to what we gave you for normal docking procedures. If you can turn to the docking part of the Solo Book, I might as well give you that right now.
Okay. We've got a little while before we get to that one, Gordon. If it's all right with you, why don't we hold off; and I'll get to cracking here.
Okay. Fine.
Stu, Houston. We're going to send up another uplink. What it is is an uplink to - something in the computer called FANG, which is your short burn/thrust constant. It should take out the slight error that you saw on the first burn.
Hey, that's a good show. Appreciate those updates.
Stu, this is Houston. Can you give us a quick handle on how well you slept last night.
Oh, I slept about normal. I guess I probably got about 6 hours sleep, maybe 5 and a half, 6.
Roger.
And I had no medication, and I guess there's no sense in fishing out my dosimeter or even getting it out of the pocket. I've got the broken one.
Roger.
And, Gordon, just so you'll know, I'll work on that Hycon over here during the eat period from 130:40, starting in that time frame; and I won't get a chance to give an answer to you, I guess, unLil we come back around on the other pass; but I'll, regardless of how it turns out, you want me to press ahead with the normal procedures here at 131 on that PAD 30 on the 131:40, huh?
That's affirmative, Stu. And an answer by that time will be plenty good enough. The next two REVs should be all nominal configures. And we're through with the computer, also.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, we're all configured for the bistatic radar test down here; if you'll go ahead and do the procedure as shown on 130-10 in the book, VHF Antenna Left, in Omni Charlie; and we'll talk to you next time around, I guess.
Okay. I understand that we're all configured, and you've got all your commands in. And you want me to go to VHF Left and S-Band - I meant to Omni Charlie, now.
That's affirmative, Stu.
Okay. I verify VHF Antenna Left, and I'm going to Omni Charlie. And guess I'll talk to you later.
Adios.
Houston, do you read Kitty Hawk?
Kitty Hawk, Houston. You're way down in the mud there. Try it again.
Okay, how do you read?
Okay, you're still real weak, Stu.
Stand by a second.
Try it again now, Kitty Hawk.
Okay, Houston; Kitty Hawk. How do you read?
Hey, there, I got you loud and clear.
Okay, you ready for some words on the Hycon?
We're standing by.
Okay. I did that little routine that Ken talked to me about last night; and, sure enough, that noise we hear is the shutter oscillating; and you put the power on Mode switch, Standby, and the shutter sits there and oscillates back and forth. If you hit - if you go to Auto and when the intervalometer times, the shutter appears to stop while - during the FMC. When the FMC kicks up, the shutter appears to stop at that point, then goes back to oscillating again. It does the same thing in single-frame mode.
Okay, Stu. I think when you go to Auto in the intervalometer time the shutter appears to stop. Does it a - kind of follow the intervalometer setting at all?
Yes. And the - and the - the FMC operates and the shutter appears to stop, and you know then ... Hello, how do you read?
Okay. I think I've got you again now -
Hello, Houston. How do you read?
Okay, I've got you again now, Stu. How am I?
Okay. Okay, you're loud and clear. And it does the same thing in the mode - in the single; whenever you hit the button, why the FMC operates and the shutter appears to stop, and then starts back oscillating.
Okay, Stu, When the shutter does oscillate on the thing, does it kind of go back and forth or does it seem like it keeps going around? In the same -you know, does it seem like it keeps going around in the same direction or does it oscillate back and forth?
Well, I guess I might have to look at it again to be ver - be real certain but I - yes, it goes back and forth. I might check that in a little bit if I get the chance - or when I get the chance, but it looked like it was just sitting there going back and forth on the thing.
Okay, Stu. Stand by 1.
Okay, Stu. What we're thinking is that - you know the shutter kind of goes back and forth anyhow; and if it goes back and forth kind of at the intervalometer setting, and the sP00ls rotate, you know, to indicate that the film is in fact moving, it looks like it may be operating in - in the Auto mood - in the Auto mode okay and we could probably be able to get some pictures. Now if that's a completely - you know, if the shutter kind of oscillates, not with respect to the intervalometer setting; it may not be working correctly, and I guess I'm still not quite clear in my own mind that if the shutter's oscillating back and forth at the rate of the intervalometer setting.
That's a negative on that one, Ron. It's a fast oscillation, like the check that Ken wanted me to make was the intervalometer set on 60 and - and so every, every second we - the intervalometer triggers and PMC operates, but the shutter in between, is just banging back and forth.
Okay, I understand now.
Anu. - and the oscillation on the shutter appears to stop at the time the intervalometer triggers.
Okay--
You know, I looked down the lens with a flashlight and I see - I looked down the lens with a flashlight and I see the shutter is sitting there going back and forth and it appears to freeze at the time the intervalometer triggers it ... back again.
Okay, Kitty Hawk; Houston. You faded out again there, I missed your last comment.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. It looks like you - you're working on the High Gain there. We got Pitch of minus 84, and Yaw - a Pitch of minus 84, and a Yaw of 346.
Okay. I think we should have you now, Stu.
Yes. It looks - it looks pretty good, now.
Hey, it's beautiful. Okay. When the shutter does stop on the thing there at the 1-second intervals, can you see the shutter slip, at all?
No. I - I thought it might stop out there. No, I couldn't. And also when I - when I open - put magazine W in, I noticed the slit was right out in the middle of the - of the magazine there, if that means anything; and I didn?t - couldn?t particularly see the slip, when the - when the shutter stopped. But I can look for that again. You know, it's a little difficult to tell what I'm looking behind, to see whether I really should be able to see the slit or not. But i can't check it out for you right now. We've got the DC camera running off the scientific box, over there. Well, I guess you - unless you don't particularly want the High Bit Rate anyway. But I can go ahead and power it up here in a minute and run through it, while you're on the line and answer any questions.
Okay. It doesn't look like that's going to cost us anything there. Don't forget you got the Langrenus B for your photo target there.
Yes. I'm watching for that one.
And, Stu, while I've got you here, I want you to slip over your Flight Plan there on 132:42 for the north galactic pole attitude. I got a different pitch attitude.
Okay. Would you hold that 1?
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Omni Bravo.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. I know you're looking out the window there at Langrenus now, but when you set up for the camera there, let?s try a 10 frame per second instead of 60 - 10 frames per minute, I mean, instead of the 60, for the frame rate.
Stand by. I'll get that in a minute.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Looks like the first thing we ought to whip up you here is some 500-millimeter procedures. So if you've got a place to copy those down - there's about 11 steps on it. And, the next REV we'll use the 500-millimeter.
Okay. Stand by.
Okay to read the ... right now ... take ...
Stand by 1, Stu. I just barely got you there.
Okay. Kitty Hawk, try the High Gain, the Pitch, minus 50; Yaw, 181.
Okay. How do you read now?
Okay. You're real weak, Stu. How do you read me?
You're loud and clear. Coming in ...
Okay. I could just barely hear you, but if you're reading me good, why don't you go ahead and let me know when you're ready to copy some 50-millimeter procedures?
Okay. I'm ready to copy.
Okay. Step 1, configure camera CM4/EL/500/BW-PCM cable; the 16-millimeter control cable, (f/ll) l/250th, infinity; 42 frames, 5-second intervals; magazine Papa. Step 2, set COAS in left-hand rendezvous window; adjust for plus 10 degrees. Verb - Step 3, Verb 49, manuever to high-resolution photo attitude. And just a note: time to start the maneuver and the maneuver attitude will be updated. Step 4, change your DAP R^ to 11103 and, Stu, we talked about that - whether to use a 2 degree or half degree per second, there. I personally prefer the - you know the, 2 end the R . And, then if you don't quite hack it, you know, ... the load direct. Okay. Step 5 - -
...
I missed that, say again.
You know I never got a chance to try that ..., but I'll, if I get a chance ...
Okay. I didn't quite hear that, but I think you got it. Step 5, zero DET. Step 6, configure the DSE; High Bit Rate, Record Forward, Command Reset. Step 7, at T-start, EL camera on and DET startup. Step 8, at T-start plus 1 minute, ORDEAL, pitch 305, track Descartes with COAS.
Are you still with me, Stu?
Okay, I can't read you at all, now, Stu.
. . .
Okay, Stu, I'm going to go ahead and read you step 9. At T-start plus 3 minute 28 second, ORDEAL, pitch 215; terminate tracking; EL off. Step 10, configure DSE to Low Bit Rate. Step 11, record frame number.
And, in the blind, that's it.
Okay, how do you read, Ron?
Okay, you're really weak, Stu. I don't know, if you - if you can read the ACC meter on the high gain, there. Maybe I can read you, if you can keep the high gain on.
Okay, Kitty Hawk; Houston, let me try one more time here. If you're reading me okay, I?ve got some more flight-plan updates for you here.
Okay, I'm reading you loud and clear, Ron.
Okay, Stu, you're still down, but let's do the flight-plan update. At 132:4o, change your pitch attitude on the north galactic pole there, change the pitch attitude to 280; High Gain angles, Pitch, minus 81; Yaw 210.
Okay, skip on over in your solo book there to time at 133:31.
Delete the Verb 49 maneuver to the LTC attitude. And delete, at 133:40, the proceg - PRO to start the pitch rate. And delete all reference to LTC photography, target 2/8. Okay, at 134:00, add -You still with me, Stu?
No, I didn't get all of it, you dropped out for a while. I picked back up here at 133:40.
Okay, Stu, at 133:31 -
Go ahead.
Okay, Stu, at 133:31, delete the Verb 49 maneuver to the LTC target. And at 133:40 - -
I got that, forget it.
Say again.
I said forget AOS. ... Verb 49 for the COAS ...
Man, this comm is terrible; I can't read you.
Okay, if we're going to stop here now, I've got to get on to the . . .
Okay.
Roger; I copied - copied all of that.
Roger. Serial number 1002 and 305.
Okay. Give me a call when you get there, and I'll start the timing.
Starting the clock.
Go ahead, Ed.
Okay. I got all - all readings, Ed.
Roger. High scale.
Okay, Kitty Hawk; Houston. Noise stopped down here, we may have some comm now.
Hey, how about that, Houston? Looks like we got a good signal strength.
Beautiful. Man, oh man, that's great to hear your voice like that. Okay, Stu. I want to make sure that we get our 500-millimeter stuff up to you, and make sure you have that before we do anything else.
Okay.
Okay, I'm not sure where I faded out on the update I was going to give to you. I passed up delete the vertical LTC photography stuff at 133:30. Did you get that?
That's affirmative. I got a 133:30, no Verb 49 maneuver, no PRO at ORDEAL 328, and delete all LTC targets , 2 dash 18.
Okay there now. How about over at 134?
No, I didn't get anything there.
Okay, at 134, add - I've got a Verb 49 to roll, 0; pitch, 248; and yaw, 0. Over.
Okay, at 134, Verb 49 to 0, 248, and 0.
Okay. And then use 500-millimeter procedures, and did you get all of those?
That's affirmative. Let me just recap here slightly.
Okay. Wait 1, Stu. Let me get you your T-start time for the 500-millimeter there is at 134:20 -at 134:20, and T-start time is 134:20:19.
Okay. I had the ... and now tell me again, T-start.
Say again, Stu.
I did not get that last bit about the times. Give me those again.
Okay. At 134:20 in the Flight Plan there, T-start is 134:20 - 134:20:19. Okay. And, now we can go ahead and review those 500-millimeter procedures.
Okay.
Okay. I'm going to configure the camera CM4, EL, 500, black and white, PCM cable, and 16-millimeter control cable, f/II, l/250th, infinity. I'm going to shoot 42 frames with me manually flicking them off every 5 seconds. I'll use magazine P, P as in Papa. And, I'll use the COAS, set on 10 degrees, and do the Verb 49 maneuver. Probably won't change the DAP, last tracking went real well at Minimum Impulse.
Okay, we'll - look, while he's talking about that tracking - -
I'll zero the - I'll zero the event timer. I'll configure the DSE, High Bit Rate, Record, Forward, Command Reset. I guess I'll do that just prior to T-start. At T-start, I'll turn the camera on, start the event timer, and at T-start plus a minute, I should be in an ORDEAL pitch of 305, and I'll start the COAS track of Descartes; and at T-start plus 328, should be around an ORDEAL pitch at 215. I'll terminate the track, turn the camera off, got to Low Bit Rate, record the frame number.
Okay. Sounds real good there, Stu. Looks like you got it under control. I don't know, have you ever used that' 16-millimeter camera instead of the intervalometer, you know, on the PCM cable?
No, I sure haven't.
Okay. I've checked that out real good; and, every time you punch it, just like on a 16-millimeter, you take a picture, you know. And it'll reach all the way over to your left hand there, so you got that in your left hand and flipping away with your right hand on the Minimum Impulse, you know.
Okay. That shouldn?t be any problem. That COAS track and Minimum Impulse is extremely smooth., Ron. It just hangs right there.
Beautiful. Okay, the only difference as you notice; the rest of them are going to be at a zero roll so you'll be pitching the opposite direction on the thing as you did then, you did for the one for the - the last pass there.
Okay.
And, I got some - -
I'm flexible, I'll be able to handle that.
Beautiful, I'm sure you can. Okay, at AOS, I got some AOS Pitch and Yaw angles for you. At about 133.50, in there.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. And, Pitch of minus 59, and Yaw plus 345, instead of Omni B, there.
Okay. In lieu of Omni B, Pitch, minus 59; Yaw, plus 345.
Roger. You'll be coming over the hill there in your lunar libration attitude.
Okay. And, the - on magazine Q on that vertical stereo, I ended up on frame number 187.
Roger. 187 on magazine Q. And, on page 33 there, do you have your torquing and angles for your P52?
Roger. Minus 00.036, minus 00.157, plus 00.091 at a time of 131:18:30.
Roger. Minus 0.036, minus 0.157, plus 0.091, at 131:18:30.
That's affirmative.
Okay. Looks like you may have some time to mess around with this LTC, probably around 134, 35 or somewhere around there. Maybe before that. But, basically, it looks like it - Well, we're really not sure that it works or not, but we think it probably won't. But as a final check on it, if you get a chance, do the same procedures, as kind of before. Except, put your frame rate down to 10 frames per minute instead of 60. And, that'll be a slower operation there, and kind of observe, first of all, looking through the lens you should be able to see the shutter slit or at least a piece of tape-looking-like stuff, you know, where the shutter slit is; and kind of get an idea of what's happening to the shutter slit if you can. And, from what I understand, what you said before is that, it looks like it's zigging back and forth until the intervalometer hits - hits the thing, and then it kind of stops for a second or something, and then it starts zigging back and forth, again. Is that kind of correct?
That's affirmative. That's - that's the way it looked a while ago.
Okay.
It freezes on the intervalometer ... trips.
Okay. I understand it freezes when the intervalometer - kind of trips the system, so to speak.
That's true, and it also does it when you have the ... in signal and you push the button.
I don't know what the problem is; we've got a good signal strength.
You faded out on that one, Stu, I missed it.
Okay. And it has the same operation in both switch signals, when you push the signal ... button.
Okay. You might try tweaking up your High Gain there a little bit, Stu. I can't hear you.
Yaw is plus 210.
I'm showing a real good signal strength, Ron.
Okay. You're just real weak, but clear now. So, I think I can hear it.
Okay. How's that?
Okay. Real weak, but clear, I think. [Long pause.]
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston; Kitty Hawk.
Okay, Stu. We're going to rewind - start the tape recorder rewinding at LOS on the thing. And, when you see the barber pole, indicating that it's completely rewound, then go ahead and do your normal procedures, and start at Low Bit Rate, you know, Command Reset, and et cetera.
Yes. That will be a good deal, you know at the start of that stereostrip, I checked the tape at LOS, and it was gray, and by the time we got to the start of the stereostrip it had - I guess it hadn't been rewound.
Roger.
I wound it back, and we only got about 45 seconds of High Bit Rate on the start of that stereostrip.
Okay. Understand.
Okay, Stu. We got about 2 minutes of - until LOS, and you might be advised that Ed and Al are out roaming around the lunar surface, working up toward Cone - Cone Crater. I kind of lost track of exactly where they are but - -
Sounds ... Sounds real good. Thank you.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. About 30 seconds to LOS. Your 180 for REV 27 is 133:28:29.
Okay. 133:28:29.
Roger. LOS and AOS are off about a minute.
Okay. Hey, Ron, I - I find I can find my way without using that 180 time. Why don't we just discontinue that if things - ...
I'll catch it next time around; I missed it.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. I've got your data now.
Hello, Houston. How do you read Kitty Hawk?
Kitty Hawk, Houston. I think I got you that time. Kind of weak though.
Okay. It looks like we're in lockup, here. You?re loud and clear.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. We got rid of the background noise now; probably have some good comm here.
Roger, Ron. That - that's the highest signal strength I've seen so far.
Man, that's the best I've heard you. Sounds real good.
Hey, Stu, I guess the one thing I really didn't get out of you in talking about the Hycon camera, do you have any confidence - confidence at all in that thing?
Well, I guess I really don't know the inner workings well enough to - to say that, Ron. The racket sure does sound bad; but, when you see the - see the. frame counter going, you figure It's doing something. I don't really know. I didn't get a chance to look at it. I thought, as soon as we finish up here, I'll - I've got it out; and, we get a chance, why, we'll - we'll run through an exercise here with - with you on the loop and maybe we can then arrive at some conclusion.
Okay.
Just for your information, Al and Ed are just about on the edge of Cone Crater now.
Oh, great. How was the climb?
Well, it was a little further away, I think, than they really thought it was going to be. They're going to go - go up on the west rim, I guess, instead of the east rim. What it looks like right now. It's kind of the southwest rim. They're sending back all kinds of good-deal information about the soil and texture and what have you - the rocks.
And Stu, I guess you've been taking a look - haven you? - at the - in our landmark book there in the De - Descartes COAS pictures?
That's affirmative.
Roger.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go, Houston.
Okay, Stu. I've got some High Gain angles for you for after the COAS maneuver. A Pitch of minus 48 and a Yaw of 177.
Okay. Pitch, minus 48; Yaw, 177-
Roger.
Well, I sure hate to ruin this good comm, but I'll start my maneuver.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Omni Bravo.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Omni Charlie.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. We should have you now.
Okay, Ron. You're loud and clear.
Okay. You're loud and clear there, Stu. How does it go?
Okay. Went real smooth, and the frame number is 48.
Roger. Frame 48. And you think you got some good flicks, huh?
That?s affirmative. I was touching it off once every 5 seconds and it was - it held right in there. And they should be good.
Beautiful! Okay. I guess you're pressing then to checking out the LTC, right?
That's affirmative. I'll get it stretched out here and get it up and then get on with you and tell you what I see.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. Kitty Hawk.
Roger. Go, Stu.
Okay. As far as whether or not the shutter is oscillating or going in one direction, I can't tell. We did run out of film on this magazine W and that made it a little easier to see in there. With this shutter sticking like this, you're going to expose any film underneath it because, you know, it's moving at fast enough rate that I can see through and see the platen now. I can see the holes in the platen with the shutter oscillating. It goes fast. I'd say it's a couple of three times a second oscillation. Or at least that's the noise level, now. I'm not sure what the shutter's doing it's moving so fast. In Auto and in single frame, when you push the button, the shutter does stop for just an instant, and just randomly, you will see the slit. Now it's not always there. Sometimes it's there, sometimes it isn't, sometimes It's a different width on the slit. Now, why don't we start there, and then I'll entertain the questions.
Okay, Stu. That sounds like that's a good explanation of what's happening. The shutter is oscillating back and forth and it does expose the film every time it oscillates, it looks like. And even in single frame, it stops - -
Yes. Well, I don't know whether - -
Yes. Go ahead, Stu.
I don't know whether it's oscillating or whether, you know, it's - I guess it would have to be though. That thing flips back and forth. Suffice it to say, there's always a slit over the film, the thing's moving so fast. I mean I can see through to the platen.
Okay, Stu, as far as the oscillating or whipping all of the way around, what we simulated here on the ground, is that the shutter just goes around and around in there. And you know - you get a real clicking - dot dot dot dot - you know, something like that. And I guess you've tried your frame rates at 10 frames a second.
That?s affirmative, it's on 10, and the intervalometer works. And on the cycle of 10 a minute, why the shutter stops and then takes back up again.
Okay. Is the counter counting at the intervalometer setting, more or less?
That's affirmative.
Okay. So, my impression is that it's getting multiple exposures on each frame. Is that correct?
Yes, that would be it. Any film that's behind is going to be exposed as the slit moves back and forth. And like I say, the rate is fast enough that with your eye, you know, you can look right through the shutter in the center and see the holes in the platen while it's doing it's clicking thing.
Okay, understand.
And maybe if you could drum up any more questions, why - you know, this is a pretty good time; I've got the beast out here.
Okay, we've got our photo guys, here, I'll give them a poll and see if they've got any questions.
Okay. Hey, Ron, I want to make sure I'm making myself clear; so, keep asking me until you get across what you want to know.
Okay, Stu.
Okay, Stu. One question here. While the curtain is - or the shutter, you know, is clicking, sliding back and forth there, is the frame counter counting at that time or is it only counting - you know, kind of like when it's supposed to?
The frame counter is counting when it is supposed to.
Okay, the frame counter is counting when it's supposed to, and while the shutter is erratic, flipping back and forth or round and around, whatever it's doing, the frame counter is just standing still. Is that correct?
That is affirmative. It does not move with this clicking or with the shutter oscillation. It only counts either when you hit the single frame or when the intervalometer times.
Okay, understand.
Okay, Stu. It looks like we're still so uncertain on the Hycon, that we want to press on and use the 500 millimeter on the next REV. And we will not use the Hycon on the next REV.
Okay, I guess we need to talk a little bit about how we're going to do this, Ron.
Okay, I've got some flight-plan updates here for you. Starting out at 135:20 in your solo book, there.
Okay. 135:20; I'm there. .
Okay. Delete the Verb 49 maneuver and press on to 135:35. Delete the ORB RATE.
Delete - I hate to say this - delete King photo, before there at 135 degrees, about 45. And also delete the fan Crater strip there, target 4.
Okay, I've got you. Go ahead.
Okay. And, of course, delete all references to the LTC photo on target 6. And then at 136:00, on page 38.
Okay, go ahead.
Okay. And Verb 49 to roll 0, pitch 249, and yaw 0. Use 500-millimeter procedures. T-start, 136:18:40.
And, Kitty Hawk, Houston. Did you copy that?
Roger. Okay, a readback. We're marking off the 135:20, no Verb 49 maneuver; 135:35, no PRO on the ORDEAL; and marked off in blood is the King photos, the Fan Crater photos; deleting any reference to LTC target 6; and, at 136, we'll do a Verb 49 maneuver to 0, 249, 0; use the 500-millimeter procedures; T-start at 136:18:40.
Okay, that's good. And then I've got your map update for REV 28 on page 37, there.
Okay, now. This is another track of Descartes. Is that right, Ron?
That's affirmative. And stand by 1. I may have a slightly different aim point there.
That's affirmative.
Okay. Ron, have you got your Descartes COAS out?
Sure do.
Okay, mark down the aim point. The aim point is shown on it, that crater right by the center of the X.
That did show up when I first started. So, see right up toward the top of the page, two craters right together? I meant move up about a - oh a quarter of an inch from the center. Can you see a little doublet there?
Okay. I think I'm with you. Yes.
Okay. That was my aim point on that pass. Those -those two showed up better at first, before this one down here. So I picked up on them. And you know that's essentially between the two bright ones and about 3/16ths of an inch up from the center of the COAS as shown on it.
Okay. I think - I'm not sure which way is up. Is it the bottom of the page or the top of the page now that you're talking about? I - I got a little doublet kind of - -
Okay.
- - toward - toward the bottom of the page.
No, no. Take - take the center of the COAS and move toward the top of the page about a quarter of an inch. They're not really touching each other, but there are two small craters there, just to the left of the center line of the COAS.
Okay. I've got you. I've got you.
Okay, that was my aim point on that - on that pass, and it - it stayed pretty good.
Okay, real good. Do you think you can pick up the - you know the - the aim point as on the COAS? As - as shown on the picture for this REV?
Yes, I think so. I - I can probably get down there ...
Okay. That'll be real good. And then if we have - -
Before we go any further - Hey, Ron, before we press on, would anybody object to me going wide deadband here? Would that affect the comm or anything?
Yes, it does, Stu. We talked about that, and you're fat on fuel. So let's stay in narrow deadband here, so we'll keep the comm. You're - -
Okay - -
- - You're about 90 - -
- - Very good then. I interrupted - -
- - You're - -
Go ahead, Ron.
- - You're about 90 pounds above the Flight Plan there.
Okay. So on this pass I'll try to hit this aim point dead center. Actually, I was under the impression that the place we really want to aim is a little to the south and a little to the west from where the center of this is marked here on this map. Why don't you verify that for me, and we'll talk about it when we come around.
Okay. Yes, I remember ... talking about it, and I was going to make a little equilateral triangle with those two craters that were right in the -pretty close to the center of the X, you know, just a little bit, like you say, to the south there. And I'll verify that for sure, though.
Okay.
And, Stu, here I've got your map update for REV 28 there on page 37-
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. 180 is 135:26:51-
Okay. 135:26:51, and guess I was talking about this when we went AOS [sic] last time. I - I'm really not - I - I don't need that time. I can -I can find my way around real good. Why don't we just dispense with padding that up and save the chatter?
I figured you'd say that. You know we've had real good training on where we are up there so - plus the fact you can whip in the P21 if you really get lost on the thing, so it sounds like a good idea.
Okay. And do you have data on me now, Ron?
That's affirmative. We even have High Bit Rate this time.
Well, how about that? I know after all this talking and everything, I just happened to look over here. My cabin pressure is - is up. What do you say about it there? I'm reading on the gage here about 5.8 or so.
Let me make a quick check with EECOM.
Yes, Stu. You know you pumped it up before you went to bed last night, and the - just the ... accumulator is kind of - you know building it up a little bit. And you just got a real tight cabin. We don't think it's a problem at all.
Okay. You just don't breathe much when you're in here by yourself, huh?
Yes, I guess that's it.
And, Stu, go for the point as depicted in the COAS picture.
Okay. I'll put her on there dead center.
Okay.
Okay, Ron. Just to make sure I understand here now. Really, I won't do anything the way the Flight Plan is now, until 136 when I go for another Descartes track? You verify that?
Yes, that's right. And, let me do some checking here. I don't know if you're going to be able to sneak in any pictures of King, you know, as you're coming up there or not.
Okay. Well, I'll - I can use the time to get this thing stowed, ready for my hiking buddies.
Okay. Speaking of your hiking buddies, they're about - It looks like a little more than halfway back from Cone, heading back toward the LM. Okay. One other flight-plan change I got here on the - -
Okay. Real fine.
- - reference to the batteries. At - Flip over to 137.
Okay, 137*
Okay. And put, "Charge battery A," at that point in time. And take battery B off of charge at that time, instead of at 136:15.
Okay. I'll move "Charge battery A" from 136:15 to 137-
Roger.
Okay, Kitty Hawk; Houston here. You got about a minute to go before you go around the horn.
Okay. We'll see you in a few minutes.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. How we doing?
Howdy. Getting along real fine.
Okay, Stu. We've got you this time, I think.
Yes. I'm reading you loud and clear.
Okay, Stu. We'd like to give the high gain a chance here to do its stuff with the Servo Electronics Power in Secondary. So what we'd like to have you do is go to Secondary with the High Gain Servo Electronics Power switch. Switch your - While your Track mode in Manual, set in a Pitch of minus 58, a Yaw of 185, and Beam Width to Wide. And then go into a normal acquisition, you know, trying to get it to Auto and then Medium and then down to Narrow. If for some reason that doesn't work, well then go on back to the way we've been - been doing it there in Manual, Medium, and Primary Electronics.
Okay. Now, the Electronics are in Secondary now, Ron. They have been since yesterday.
Oh, okay. Well, why don't we press on anyhow and try a normal acquisition on the thing, then? Put your Pitch to minus 58, Yaw to 185.
All right.
And we'll see if it'll track in Auto at all, or if it'll - -
Okay. We'll give it a go.
We got Narrow.
Well, how about that, sports fans! There's Auto and Narrow, good and solid.
Yes. It worked, looks like. Okay. Let's go ahead and leave it there, Stu. And let's see if it'll track when you start to maneuver to the COAS tracking attitude.
Okay.
And, Stu, for your information, Al and Ed are back at the LM. Al's down there hitting golf balls. Seeing how far he can hit them.
How's that coming out?
Al - looks like he had a couple of slices there, but then finally go - got a hold of one and really drove it down the old lunar surface.
Stu, you doing anything now? Do you want to talk about these normal docking procedures, changed there on page 52?
Okay. Just a second. Let me float out from under the couch here and get my book.
Okay.
Okay. I'm on page 52.
Okay, Stu. Let me talk about it here a minute -for a little bit. As you know, normal procedures are we go whipping on in there, we get contact with the drogue, and then, as soon as we get capture, we go to CMC, Free. Well, the basic difference there is that we want the LM to do a little bit of thrusting. If for some reason, you know, it doesn't go to - the capture light, just don't capture, when you make contact. So, we just want you to press on in there, contact the drogue, and report contact to the LM. And then at that point, the LM is going to do a plus X, And, then as soon as you get capture on the thing, you go to CMC, Free.
So at about 1 ? ?
Okay. Go ahead, Ron.
Okay. Just to have it down in writing there, where it says translate to capture latch at about 144:07 or 08 in there somewhere, change that to, "translate to a contact with drogue."
Okay. "Translate to contact with drogue."
And then add, "report contact to the LM," immediately following that.
Okay. I'll write that down. I'm sure I won't have to tell him.
I don't think so either (laughing). But, that's his cue to go ahead and plus-X, if necessary, you know.
Okay. I've got that - -
Okay.
- - Translate to contact with drogue, report contact to LM, and CMC, Free, at capture.
Yes. That's right. CMC, Free, at capture. The thing we didn't want to be is have you in CMC, Free, and the LM pushing against you, you know? In other words, don't go to CMC, Free, until you get capture.
Okay.
And, that's it.
Very good.
..., Ron that S-band's hanging - the antenna's hanging right in there. We should have done that days ago, huh?
Yes. It looks like it's done pretty good so far. Let me see how the signal strength's doing with INCO here.
Okay, Stu. It looks like it's tracking okay here. When you lose the high gain, switch to Omni Delta.
Omni Delta.
The guys are really having a ball down there on the lunar surface throwing away their tools. Making javelins out of them and everything.
Houston, 14.
Ok - Okay, Stu. I can just barely read you.
Disregard me. I was just going to ask you a question about the EVA. I'll catch you later.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. If you read, it's about 30 seconds from T-start time.
Houston, do you read Kitty Hawk?
Okay, Kitty Hawk. This is Houston. We?ve got you now.
Okay. Well, that should have been right on the target, Ron. And my frame counter is 87.
Roger. 87 on that one. And while I think about it, on page 35 there, we missed your percent remaining on the galactic survey and lunar libration -camera.
Okay. After the lunar libration, I'm reading 60 percent.
Roger. 60 percent.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Got too much background noise here. We're trying to get the high gain. Can you roll left 60 degrees? And then try to acquire on the High Gain a Pitch of minus 50, Yaw of plus 50.
Okay. Ron. Let me hold off for about 2 or 3 minutes, if you would, please.
Okay.
And then when you get there, we'll be giving you an update, and also I've got some P24 pads for you.
Okay.
Hey, Ron. Give me those High Gain angles again.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Those angles were Pitch at minus 50, the Yaw at plus 50.
Houston, you read Kitty Hawk?
Okay, Kitty Hawk; Houston. Man, that's a lot better on the ears, now.
Okay; you want to whip it - whip into P00 and Accept, and we'll ship you up a state vector and also a clock SYNC.
Okay on P00 and Accept.
Okay. And you about ready to start copying PADs on page 40 there for RP-4?
I'm ready; go ahead.
Okay. T1, 137:38:43; 43:33; 45:13; 46:01. It's south 02. Ansgarius N, 137:51:34; 56:24; 58:04, 58:52, south 06. Okay, for DE-2, T1, 138:11:23; 16:13; 17:53; 18:41; north 08. Okay, for Encke, E, T1 , 138:31:14; 36:04; 37:44; 38:32; south 22. And readback.
Okay, RP-4, 137:38:43; 43:33; 45:13; 46:01; south 02. Ansgarius N, 137:51:34; 56:24; 58:04; 58:52; south 06. 138:11:23; 16:13; 17:53; l8:41; north 08. 138 - Encke E, 138:31:14; 36:04; 37:44; 38:32; south 22.
Beautiful readback there, Stu.
Okay, we're all set.
And Al and Ed are back in the LM, now.
How many golf balls did Al have with him?
Well, I thought I saw three real good swings, there.
Great.
And, Kitty Hawk; Houston. The computer is yours.
Okay. Thank you.
Hey, Kitty Hawk; Houston.
Go ahead.
We noticed - maybe a little more fuel usage there. Did possibly you hit a couple of Direct switches maybe? On that COAS target or something?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes, I did. The - You need three hands to get that going where you've got one hand on that fool camera control and then to throw the switch; so, I was taking a couple of pictures and I used the Direct for a little bit there.
Okay, that clears it up. I figured that maybe what it might have been and just wanted to check.
And, Kitty Hawk; Houston. If you want to dig out your G&C Checklist there, on page G9-4, I got a couple of constants to change there in that erasable load.
Okay. I'm ready to copy.
Okay. On page G9-4, column Delta, line 10, change it from 02210; change it to 02263.
Okay, 9-4, under Delta, line 10, now reads 02263.
Okay, and then on line 11, same column, Delta, change it from 36321; change it to 15472.
Okay. 15472 for Delta, line 11.
Okay. And these are those - the erasable locations that we changed yesterday on the thrust model, you know.
Okay.
Hey, Stu, just out of curiosity, when you whipped by Lansberg Bravo there, did you get - you think you got some 250-millimeter pictures of that area? You know when you had the long pass?
Yes. Yes, I should have got some - some good ones of Lansberg B.
Okay.
It was - They were 500.
Oh, okay. Beautiful.
Okay, Stu. You can go ahead and whip into wide deadband there for a while, if you want. It looks like we've got a good high gain now.
Okay.
And also, in looking through this P24 there, it looks like we're changing the shutter speeds on each one of those things for the DAC. Just a reminder.
Okay.
And, Stu, just for a matter of information here on further planning, right now we're looking at REV 30 - where we've got our zero-phase things -the forwards and backwards. And we'll probably go ahead and do the backwards zero phase, but not the forward, and do another COAS maneuver on the Descartes area.
Okay. Sounds good.
And if you got a half a minute here, you might pull out your Descartes COAS picture again, and I can explain your aim point for that pass.
Okay. I've got it right here.
Okay. As you look at the page, you've got a picture of the COAS in there. And - on the east side, or toward the bottom of the page, you can see a little doublet about 1 and - 1 and a half marks or 1 and a third marks down from the center of the COAS. Right on the vertical COAS line.
Yes. I've got that.
Okay. It's just east - -
Is that the aim point?
That's the aim point, by golly.
What are we doing way over there?
Well, it's just a little further east than the two bright craters, you know.
Okay. Yes.
And - -
Okay. I'll make that the aim point.
Okay. See, and then you started out a little bit west of the aim point on the map, and then we got one right at the aim point. And then we're getting these just a little further east, so we'll have some stereostrips quite a ways through the area there.
Okay. Another thing, Kitty Hawk. To help balance the quads a little bit there, you can whip back into Verb 48 there and use Bravo Delta for roll.
Okay.
Hey, Stu. You might like to know - I don't know where they're going to put all those rocks they found down there on the surface, but the LM was full, so you better find a place for them.
Yes. That's what I been doing, is trying to get things organized for the avalanche.
(Laughter ) Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, Stu. We got about 2 minutes until LOS here. Just for a little bit of advance planning, we're pretty sure we'd like to bring the probe back with you. So - and right now we're thinking about stashing it down there between A-6 and A-10, you know, down betw - betw - below the LMP's couch there somewhere.
Okay. Well, you know that - Okay. You know, you don't put the probe between A-6 and A-10, you know; it goes on top of A-10.
(Laughter) Yes, I know, Stu. It's - I don't know - it's - We'll work out the stowage down there. But it looks like maybe you can stick the point, you know, down in there somewhere, or at least get part of it down between the two of them. And I realize there isn't much room. It'll be mostly on top.
Yes, that ought to take care of the L-over-D problem.
Yes. RETRO's kind of happy about that.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. We've got you on Low Bit Rate now. Lot of background noise here, and I probably won't be able to hear you very much, but you're in a - an - a not - not-as-good high-gain antenna attitude.
Okay.
And, Kitty Hawk; Houston. I show you about 30 seconds from T1 on the Ansgarius N.
Roger.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Time to start your camera and shutter speed should be l/250th.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. I missed your T1 time call there; but it's time to start the camera, now, on EE-2.
Okay, Houston. Kitty Hawk. I'll give you those gyro torquing angles in a minute.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. You can try it. I might be able to copy them.
I'll catch you in about 2 or 3 minutes, Ron.
Okay.
Well, I - Houston, 14.
Okay. You're way down in the mud there, Kitty Hawk, but go.
Okay. I saw the LM again when I went across them.
Hey, by golly. That's amazing; that's great.
Yes. It's a little harder without the long shadow that it was putting out yesterday. I - what I was doing was just playing around. I should have been gotten P24 and marked on it, but that was a good mark that I - I mean a good pass that I had yesterday.
Roger.
Hi, Stu.
Hi, Freddo.
I haven't got to talk to you in a couple of days.
Well, you've been tied up.
Yes. Just a little bit.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. The camera ought to be running.
Okay, Kitty Hawk. The lack of noise is music to my ears.
Okay.
And - -
Looks like you have a good lockup here.
Yes, It's working fine. And we?re standing by for your magazine percentage and also your P52.
Okay. The magazine percentage is 35.
Roger; 35.
And, let me find my P52.
And, the P52, if you're ready.
Ready to copy.
Okay. Minus 00.002, minus 00,166, minus 00.005; torque at 137:18:00.
Do you want to talk about your Noun 05 today?
No, I had all zeros on this one.
I figured as much. Okay. We copy: minus .002, minus .166, and a minus .005; torque's at 137:18:00
Roger. Hey, is Freddo still there?
Yes, wait 1. He's talking to the "LMies" right now.
No, that's all right - that's all right. I was just - you know, not only seeing the LM, I saw the Sun glinting off the ALSEP, I'm sure. And I was just wondering if it was deployed out by that crater at about CL 0.8 or 85/65.
Okay. I got a map here. Looks like it was about pretty close to CR and 63, is the ALSEP.
C what?
Charlie-Romeo and 63. It's really Charlie-Quebec 0.9 and about a 63.2.
Okay.
Where did you say you thought you saw a bright spot there?
Well, now, I'm wondering if I got my direction from the LM - you can get the LM because it's by the Triplet.
Right.
And, I just looked out and saw the bright spot going toward - parked out by another crater. And I'm thinking maybe I got my directions from the LM wrong. Is ALSEP out by that crater called Neighbor on the map?
Wait a minute; I don't have Neighbor on this particular map I'm looking at. ALSEP is kind of between Doublet and Triplet, if you can see that part of it there. And, it's toward Doublet from the LM.
Yes, well that's where I called - that's where I said the first time, and it didn't fit in. You told me Charlie-Quebec 0.9*
Wait 1, Stu, until I get the right - same map you're looking at.
Okay. I was looking at a smaller map. It's got some more numbers in there. You're right. It's really right there by Neighbor, just east - just south of Neighbor. It's right in a line between the center crater of Triplet and Doublet.
Well, now, the coordinates that I called the first time just - you know, I didn't compare the map when I was looking through the sextant, but it looked to me like the - just judging on here, the ALSEP would be about CL 0.9 and right at 65, maybe 64.9. And, see, there's a little crater. See that little crater right there at about CL 8 and maybe 64 -64.5, or something like that.
Okay. Yes, I think that - I think that was the ALSEP --
Yes, I think right there is - Yes. I can see the Sun shining off the beauty.
Yes. That was it; that was it.
Okay, Kitty Hawk there. Maybe we ought to whip into the update - map update or the flight-plan update for the next REV. And we'11 start out with the zero-phase pad backward on page 43.
And, Houston; Kitty Hawk.
Houston, go.
Okay, Ron. Where we going to do - we going to have the first zero phase and then shoot Descartes?
That's affirm.
Okay. Sounds like a good idea.
Yes, it ought to be pretty good. And for the zero-phase backward PAD, roll angle is 195.4; pitch, 344.4; yaw, 359.9, T-start, 139:41:42. You write down your switch time - is 758. And, just a note...
Okay. 195.4...
Just a note there, Stu. When you start the DAC and stop the DAC, give a call so we can get a time hack on it.
Okay. 195.4, 344.4, 359.9, 139:41:42. Switch is 758, and I give you a mark for start and stop of the DAC on the camera.
Okay. Mighty fine. And, at the bottom of the page there on - at 140, add a Verb 49 maneuver. Verb 49 to a roll, 028; pitch, 253; and yaw, 0. That's to the COAS striking attitude.
Okay. 140, a Verb 49 to 028, 253, and 0 degrees.
And, as you notice, you got a little bit of roll in there; so, you ought to have fun tracking this one with a little pitch and yaw, minimum LMPulse, you know.
Roger.
Okay. On page 44, got a little deletion there. Delete the Verb 49 at the top of the page, there. Say goodbye to Isadora and Compella; delete phototarget 7, there. And, in all that place in there, put the 500-millimeter procedures. And, at 140:15, put your T-start time of 140:15:13. And, then, you can go ahead and delete the zero-phase observations forward looking - which is kind of the rest of the page, there.
Roger. It looks like we?ll just delete everything else.
Yes, that's right. And the target point for that one is, as we mentioned before, you know about one and a third of those marks down the COAS, east of the depicted COAS position there.
Okay. I'll try to pick up that little Doublet there.
Okay.
Okay, Kitty Hawk. We got about 1 minute to LOS here. Al and Ed are completing a debriefing from their EVA. And I think they had - got about 160 pounds of stuff - 167 pounds of stuff coming back up to you.
Jolly good.
Roger.
160 pounds of rocks and a probe, huh?
Yes. You betcha.
Okay. We're getting ready to start the zero-phase observations on targets 5 and 6. We're a minute and a half past the T-start time; waiting for 5 minutes - to put on the camera.
Passed over target 1.
Sure is a lot of difference with this low Sun than there was yesterday. Kind of amazing about C; how - in particular, how it - You really lose it at zero-phase,
Well, tell you what. At this low - Sun angle, you can see a B on target 2, but it's still - still almost unidentifiable; that's just really a tough target. A shows up real well at this low Sun angle You'd be hard put to call which crater was B - at any Sun angle.
Okay, At 04:20, turning on the DAC here shortly. Camera ...
Okay, Kitty Hawk; Houston here, if you read. You got less than 30 seconds to start your camera for zero phase.
And I lost them all - So on that one, at the switch point, I could not pick up target A at all. It was just too subdued. B was easy to pick up, and 0 also. C - C was - was very easy to pick up. Going through zero-phase, B was completely wiped out; A, I never did have to start with, so it was wiped out; and C - C held through zero-phase and reasonably well; but as it got further on up, it, too, got pretty well wiped out. I think it's the same bit of being on the - being on the backside. You Just - The terrain is - You don't have the flat mare surface to give you the relief that - that you need to pick out - to pick out the targets. It's - what - very little contrast In albedo, and -you - you Just don't have the - the ability to see the darks and lights like we did on the frontside pass yesterday. And, I guess, in summary now, for targets 3 - very easy to pick up at the time I picked them up; of course, the Sun was low on them. And I'm going to turn off this ... test lever under panel 18. Okay, I'll leave it on a little longer and debrief onto the tape. A - A, B, and C on target 3 picked up very easily. Saw them into zero-phase; surpri - B is a fairly shallow crater, but it even held up as good as C. I'd put 3 and C both completely wiped out at zero-phase. A held to zero-phase; but then, as it went on up, you surely couldn't have picked it up - by itself, if you didn't know the relation to some other terrain. All three of those were - Once you're well past zero-phase, it'd be a rather marginal target. And, on target 6, I never got A at all - it was already wiped out. B went real fast in zero-phase approach. C, you could still identify after zero-phase, but Just because you knew it was there. And then, it
Kitty Hawk, this is Houston. We got too much background noise again. I can't read you.
Okay. Let me see if I can pick up the high gain,
Okay. Let me see if I can pick up the High Gain.
No. I just can't make you out. Maybe you can get me on the High Gain there.
It ought to be getting better real fast.
It ought to be getting better real fast.
Hey. By golly. That's much better.
Okay. And stand by Just 1; I'll make - I want to make a couple of notes here. And - -
Okay. And stand by just 1. I'll make a - I want to make a couple of notes here.
Okay.
And you - you've got the tape back again. I hit Command Reset there so I could get - keep the tape running. I don't know when it went off during the pass.
Okay. We copy.
Okay, Ron. I'm back with you.
Roger. Go ahead, Stu, with your frame number and whatever. I mean your percent. No, I was right the first time, frame number.
Roger. Frame number 83.
Copy 83.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Omni Charlie.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. About 30 seconds to T-start.
Roger.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. The High Gain angles: Pitch, minus 30; Yaw, 125.
Okay.
Houston, Kitty Hawk.
Okay, Kitty Hawk. Go - a little background noise, but go ahead. You're good shape now. Background noise is from the LM.
How about that? Okay. The tracking went pretty good. It's getting at - this Sun angle at the - I didn't pick up at Doublet. However, I knew where it should be, and I got another little one in that area. So I think the track is pretty close to the - the area you wanted. The track - the tracking went all right. However, in the heat of the battle there, I did not get the tape recorder going, so we didn't get the High Bit Rate on that track. And the frame number is 126.
Okay. We copy that, Stu. And don't leave the dark slide out of that magazine when you take it off. Okay? It's a pretty important magazine.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston, request P00 and Accept there, and we'll ship you a state vector or two.
Roger. You have it, P00 and Accept.
Okay. And also, Stu, I've got your consumables update and your P27 PAD here, if you're ready to copy. Start with consumables first .
Okay. I'm ready. Go ahead.
Okay. Consumables GET 140:40; total 60 percent. Okay, now I'll read the quads off the problem Charlie. 61, 60, 60, 60; H ; 52, 52; 0o: 77, 76, 25. 2
Okay. 140:40; 60 - 61, 60, 60, 60; 52, 52; 77, 76, 25.
Okay, that's correct. Whip over to page 26 there, and I'll give your P27 for the CSM.
Okay.
Okay. Verb 71; GET, 142:25:00; Index 21: 01, 501, 00, 002, 77, 730, 75, 126; Index 6 is 77, 472, 41, 104, 77, 633, 56, 122; Index 12: 60, 206, 77, 562, 00, 766, 25, 263, 04, 076; Index 17: 27, 204, 06, 071, 10, 560. Read back.
Okay. Verb 71; 142:25:00; 21: 01, 501, 00, 002, 77, 730, 75, 126; 77, 472, 41, 104, 77, 633, 56, 122; 60, 206, 77, 562, 00, 766, 25, 263, 04, 076; 27, 204, 06, 071, 10, 560.
Okay. Beautiful readback there, Stu.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. We've got a few more things to go on the uplink there. Can you still give us P00 and Accept?
Roger. You've still got it.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. Computer is yours.
Okay. Thank you.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. I've got your ascent PADs for you.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. Direct ascent rendezvous PAD: GETI of lift-off, 142:25:42.00; Noun 37; 143:10:54.00. And the T. for one REV late: lift-off is ig 142:24:04. Okay. Your coelliptic rendezvous - Oh, wait a minute. I'm sorry. CSM weight: 34417. Coelliptic rendezvous PAD: lift-off T is 142:28:12.50; CSI, 143:26:36.60; Noun 37; 145:11:30.00. And ready for readback.
Okay. Copy. Direct ascent - oh, before I start, give me that - that for one - one REV late. What - what T do you have there? IG.
Okay. That's just set the lift-off for one REV late. Wait a minute. Hold it. That's the wrong number. For some reason, it doesn't match up here.
That's what I was thinking.
Yes. You're right. Okay, Copied it down wrong. Sorry. Okay, T for one REV late is 144:24:04.
Okay. Direct ascent: 142:25:42.00; 143:10:54.00; lift-off one REV late: 144 plus 24 plus 04. CSM weight, 34417. Coelliptic: 142:28:12.50; 143:26:36.60; 145:11:30.00.
Okay. Good readback, Kitty Hawk. And we probably won't have MSFN relay the next time you come around here. As a matter of fact, I Just got the word, we will not have any MSFN relay when you come around the next time.
Okay.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. We have your torquing angles.
Okay. Torqued at 140:53:20.
Roger. 53 at 20.
Kitty Hawk, Houston. About 1 minute to LOS there. All systems are GO, and we'll see you coming around the other side.
Kitty Hawk, Roger.
