Apollo 14, this is Houston. Reveille, Reveille; heave out and trice up.
Good morning, Bruce. How are you this morning?
Sweepers , man your brooms; clean sweepdown fore and aft.
Yes, all the sweepers are still asleep around here.
Okay, Ed. How are you all this morning?
Really great, Bruce; really great. How are things there?
Beautiful; everybody's relaxed down here and anticipating your arrival on schedule.
Very good.
Good morning, Bruce.
Who's that? Stu?
Yes, he's waking up over there.
Yes, man.
Hey, Ed, if you feel like configuring the High Gain Antenna for us, we'd like to set up in a Reacq mode but not select High Gain, yet. Over.
Okay.
Okay, first off, we need the - -
My angles - -
Roger. We need a Pitch of minus 40 and a Yaw of plus 90, that's Pitch, minus 40; Yaw, plus 90, set in on the dials; Wide Beam, Manual Track -make it Wide Beam and Reacq, but do not select the High Gain Antenna until we call you.
Okay, Houston. Out.
Roger. And I guess we needed to have the High Gain in Manual long enough for the antenna to go to those angles, then to Reacq.
It's there.
Beautiful.
14, Houston. When you all feel like discussing things, we've got oh - about five or six items here, including a consumables update and a short update to the procedures on one of the inflight demos, and some discussion on midcourses in general. Nothing very pressing; in fact, nothing pressing at all. We would like to get the P23 scheduled at 164 hours, started within about half an hour of the nominal time. Over.
Yes, Bruce. I'd like to go ahead and maybe start that one about now and then, P23, go ahead get going on it.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. We'd like you to select the High Gain Antenna at this time. And, Stu, we see that you've got a P52 to run prior to getting to the P23. We suggest you go ahead and go through that and start the P23, more or less, at the nominal time.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Okay.
Adjust High Gain.
14, this is Houston. Did you call?
Yes, that's affirm. I went to Reacq, Bruce. The antennas started driving around in a wild circle. I'm back on the Omnis now.
Okay. We copy, Ed. Stand by.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. We'd like to remain on Omnis. You may stow the High Gain Antenna, Manual and Wide, at Pitch, minus 52; Yaw, 270. Over.
Roger. Manual and Wide; minus 52 and 270.
Roger.
(Garble)
Houston, Apollo 14 standing by for the consumables update.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. The consumables update for 162 hours follows: RCS total 48.8; quads in order, 48.9, 48.1, 49.6, 48.6; hydrogen, 45.7, 45.0; oxygen, 73.0, 70.2, 21.6. Over.
Houston - -
Say it again, 14.
Okay. A readback of 162 hours - -
14, this is Houston. We're changing antennas. Standby, please.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. How do you read now? Over.
Loud and clear; go ahead.
Roger, Ed. I didn't get your readback on that consumables update. We switched Omni antennas about that time. Were you happy with what you copied?
That's affirm. Here, I'll read it back to you. The only ones in doubt is the 02 tank 3 and, first decimal place. Okay, GET 162:00; RCS 48.8, order of 48.9, 48.1, 49.6, 48.6; H 45.7, 45.0; 0 73.0, 70.2, 21.
Roger. 21.6 on 02 tank 3; and whenever it's convenient with you all, we would like to get that postsleep status report and acknowledgment on the postwakeup stuff on 162.
Roger. I'll have it for you in a minute.
Roger. No rush.
14, Houston. We are copying your torquing angles
Okay, Bruce, and I'm torquing at 163:48:37.
Roger, Stu. And you can go on with the P23 whenever it suits your convenience.
Okay.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, we verify that ...
You're cutting out, Ed.
All of the items on the postsleep checklist have been completed. Al had 7 hours sleep, Stu 6, Ed 7. And, unfortunately, the PRD is not available at the moment, and we will have to forget about the ...
Roger. We copy.
Yes, and we've had no medication. We are all in excellent ... So, just tell the surgeon to sit back in his chair and have a cup of coffee; we're fine.
Okay, I'll see if the recovery coffee or the procedures coffee - network coffee pot is working here, and we'll get him a cup of coffee.
Have one for me, too.
I just did, Ed.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. On arrival in the optics-calibration attitude, we'd like to get the High Gain Antenna in Wide Beam width, Manual and with the flight-plan angles. Over.
Okay. We can handle that, Bruce.
Roger, Stu. And could you also verify that you're still on the Secondary, Servo Electronics, Power for the High Gain?
That's verified.
Okay.
Houston, switching to the High Gain.
Roger, 14; we're receiving you loud and clear, now.
And, Ed; this is Houston. If you have got the Flight Plan handy, I've got a change to the heat flow and convection procedures, as called out in the back of the Flight Plan for you.
Stand by, I don't have it handy, ... Houston, just a moment. But - -
Okay, well, let's get that later. Let him use it.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Just for your information, RCS status shows about 131 feet per second Delta-V remaining, and SPS is about 510 feet per second. Over.
Okay, Bruce. Thank you.
And, looking ahead at the midcourse situation here, we'll have a decision for you shortly on whether we want to burn midcourse 5 or not. Right now, its magnitude looks like something on the order of a half to three-quarters of a foot per second. With no midcourses at all coming back, your gamma is minus 6.97 degrees. If we start making midcourses, 5 they say, would be about a half to three-quarters of 6's on the order of three-quarters of a foot per second, and 7 looks like about 2.7 or something on that order reading out. We'll keep you posted. We owe you some detail procedures on probe stowage, which will be up later on today. And, when Stu gets through with the P23, we'd like to clarify the status of his biomed harness. We didn't get any data from him up until about 160 hours this morning; and then, it came in loud and clear.
Okay. I think we can clarify that for you.
I can verify the biomed harness is okay, Bruce.
Okay. Was it switched on all the time, or did you get up and switch it on about 160?
You've got it right.
Roger, Out.
And, 14; this is Houston. I've got some questions on the subject of the AGS again for Ed, when he's free; and we've also got some news items if you're interested in hearing the news.
Apollo 14; this is Houston, Stu. Over.
Go ahead, Bruce.
Yes, Stu. If you could leave your Noun 49 up there in the DSKY just a little bit longer, we could copy. We got the first one okay. We missed the last one here.
Okay. The first one was 21.2, and the second one was 1.9.
Okay, thank you.
And, Bruce? I want to verify that the state vector I'm working on now is the - is the TEI state vector. Is that affirmative?
That's affirmative, Stu. And we'd like to get Medium Beam Width on the High Gain.
Got it, Bruce.
Thank you, Ed.
Okay. We got that one, Stu. Just about 5 or 10 seconds is enough.
Okay.
And, Stu, this is Houston. We're readying a checkpoint down here and, consequently, have no data for a minute or two. We'll call you when we're back in business; otherwise, we'd like you to keep the Noun 49 for this next star, Antares, showing until we call you. Over.
Okay. I can just write them down for you.
Say, Stu, you'd better hold off on actually making the mark. We want to get the shaft and trunnion angles off of the displays also.
Okay. I'll just stand by 1; no problem.
Okay. And we're back in business, Stu. You can press on.
Well, that was good timing.
Ed, this is Houston. If you have a minute, we'd like to get the High Gain Antenna pointing angles tweaked up for maximum signal strength. We're showing about a Pitch of minus 60 and a Yaw of 0 as being appropriate. Over.
You got it, Stu?
Got it, Stu?
We got it, Stu.
We got it, Stu.
We've got it, Stu.
We've got that one also, Stu.
Okay, we got it.
Okay, we got it.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. We copied the last Noun 49 value there. And, for Stu's information, based on the sightings taken on the first three stars, we're showing that the program and the marks are all working out in excellent fashion within 1 sigma of the expected values. From the trench comes the information that your state vector compared with their estimate without any midcourse corrections, which show you arriving at entry interface 4 minutes earlier than the MSFN vector, at the present time. Over.
Okay, we'll see what - if we can work on that 4 minutes.
Roger.
And we're going to be playing around here with the program a little bit.
Okay. And, when you're through with that and prior to starting your maneuver to the thermal attitude, we'd like to go through a normal acquisition procedure on the High Gain Antenna, hopefully winding up in Auto and Narrow Beam Width to verify its tracking capabilities during the maneuver. Over.
Okay, Bruce. Say again when you want to do this.
Roger. When Stu's through with his P23 and prior to starting the maneuver to thermal attitude that you've got called out - oh, at about 164:55, Verb 49, maneuver to thermal attitude. Over.
Okay. Will do.
14, Houston. If you want to sit there in P00 and Accept for a minute, we've got the target load and state vector update for you.
Okay. We're P00 and Accept. I guess we're going to do midcourse 5, huh.
Roger. Sorry about that. Yes, we will burn midcourse 5 as scheduled. And I've got the midcourse 5 PAD for you whenever you're ready to copy.
Okay. Stand by 1.
Houston, Apollo 14. Ready to copy it.
Roger, Ed. Midcourse correction number 5; RCS/G&N; 24561; pitch and yaw trim, N/A. TIG, 166:14:58.54; Noun 81, plus 0000.7, minus all balls, minus all balls; roll, 092, 330, 009; HA is N/A, plus 0018.9; 0000.7, 0:03, 0000.7; sextant star 33, 256.3, 13.5; boresight star is N/A; minus 27.03, minus 172.62; 1158.8, 36251; 216:28:03; GDC align, Sirius and Rigel; 230, 170, 002; plus-X, two jet, Bravo and Delta. High Gain angles in this attitude: Pitch, minus 90; Yaw, plus 206. Read back over.
Give again the jets to use, please, sir.
Jets Bravo and Delta, B and D. Over.
Okay. Okay, midcourse 5; RCS/G&N; 24561; N/A, N/A; at 166:14:58.54; plus 0000.7, minus all zips, minus all zips; 092, 330, 009; N/A, plus 0018.9, 0000.7, 0:03, 0000.7; 33, 256.3, 13.5; N/A; minus 27.03, minus 172.62, 1158.8, 36251; 216:28:03; Sirius and Rigel; 230, 170, 002; plus-X, two jet, B and D. High Gain Antenna angles: Pitch, minus 90; Yaw, 206.
Roger. Readback is correct. And were you aware that you're now coming back on Wednesday instead of Tuesday?
No, we haven't considered that fact. But I guess we'll make it up between the splashdown and Houston, right.
(Laughter) Roger, Roger you. After the TEI burn, it looks like you're about 3 or 4 miles west of the jog in the international dateline, as it comes down through your splashdown area.
Okay.
14, Houston. The computer is yours. You can maneuver to the midcourse correction 5 attitude without going through the thermal attitude; that won't be required. And we would like to go through the normal Reacq procedure on the High Gain Antenna, prior to starting the maneuver, and see if it tracks. Over.
Okay. Will do.
And, for Stu, we've got two minor corrections to the procedures for the heat-flow experiment, as found in the back of the Flight Plan.
I don't believe it. Stand by 1.
Okay, I have the procedures out, Bruce.
Okay. On the heat-flow and convec - convection demonstration, under step 2 was zone low, power on. It currently reads 15 minutes. Turns out that all that's required here is 10 minutes. Over.
That's easy. Okay, under step 2, zone low, power on, 10 minutes.
Roger. And down there under step 4, zone high, power on, it's now 10 minutes, and you can reduce that to 5 minutes.
Okay, 5 minutes under step 4.
Roger. And there's no problem involved in these. It just appears that the color changes in the crystals will saturate at about this time, so rather than using up more power, we can just shut it off at that point. Over.
Bruce, we lost you there for a minute. Let me read you right and understand exactly what you want me to do, ... go ahead and lock on and Reacq, and medium or ...
Negative, Ed. We want you to go through a normal manual acquisition procedure, winding up in Auto and Narrow, over.
Okay. But I'm already on the High Gain right now so I .. .
Okay. Then we're showing you minus 109 dB, so we must have lost you on the High Gain there, or you pointed off when you started the maneuver.
* * ?
Okay, Ed. What we want you to do is to go to Auto and Wide Beam Width, and acquire us on the antenna; and then progressively narrow it down from Wide to Medium to Narrow. Over.
Okay. Thank you. You have it.
Beautiful. I guess this is a semantics problem here, Ed. The INCOs have been using the terminology of standard acquisition to LMPly pointing the antenna towards the Earth manually, then going to Auto and Wide, getting it to lock up, and then on down into Narrow BEAM to complete the acquisition. Over.
Roger. That's what I understand as a normal acquisition, hut I - I thought I heard the word Reacq a couple of times, implying a position of the antenna, and I was confused on that one.
Roger. That's what I understand as a normal acquisition, but I thought I heard the word Reacq a couple of times LMPlying a position of the antenna, and I was confused on that one.
Negative. That wasn't our intent.
Okay, Houston.
And, Stu, this is Houston. We'd like to remind you not to select P37 prior to the midcourse burn now that we've loaded the data for your burn from the ground. Over.
Okay.
14, Houston. You reported to us earlier that the weight of the ISA as determined on the lunar surface prior to lift-off was 50 pounds. If, In your opinion, this weight has changed to greater than 55 pounds as a result of the LM return to CSM stowage, then we'll have to make provisions for tying it down. We'd like to get your feel for what the current weight on the ISA is. Over.
Roger, Bruce. We'11 tell you it weighs exactly 54.9.
Okay, Ed. We copy 54.9 for the ISA.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
A clarification on the ISA, remember now, there are a few program things that are listed in the Flight Plan that went into it after it was weighed. Are you taking that into account?
Roger. We got the weight at 50 pounds from the lunar surface and can add in, if you like, down here those things. We were just interested in getting your feel for what had all been put in. And, if so, what the - what the weight increase would be.
Okay, Bruce. This - The things that are in the Flight Plan to go into the ISA were added in as programed. And any additional items are almost negligible in weight and certain - certainly did not violate your 5-pound criterion.
Okay. Thank you, Ed.
And if you're interested, we've got the morning's news items here.
Or, alternatively, I've got some additional questions on the AOS for Ed.
Let's take the news first, and then the questions.
Roger. Okay, 14. From Fra Mauro Base comes the word that ALSEP package number 4 continues to function normally during the reporting period, ending at 162 hours GET; the CPLEE heater was turned off; and a long period calibration of the PSE was performed. From West Fra Mauro comes the report that, when Antares augered in last night, the steerable antenna was still locked on, sending back high bit rate telemetry in fine tradition. "Anchorage, Alaska - -
It had to do something to redeem itself.
- - "Anchorage, Alaska - An Earthquake measuring between 6.5 and 6.7 on the Ritcher Scale occurred near Adak in the Aleutian Islands Saturday, but no damage or injuries were reported. The seismograph-ic station in Berkeley, California, recorded the quake at 150 plus 14 GET, and scientists said it occurred close to the Earth's surface. The Alaska State Patrol said the trembler [sic] was centered south of Adak but was not severe enough to call for large wave warnings." "Stockholm - An Italian and a Norwegian-born Swede plan to repeat the 1909 North Polar Expedition of American Explorer, Admiral Robert E. Perry, right down to fur garments' and sleighs. Some of the Eskimo guides even claim to be descendents of Perry's original Eskimo crew." "Moberly, Missouri - -
Lots of luck on that one.
- - "Moberly, Missouri - A radio station of Moberly has tried a number of times to place a telephone call to Alan Shepard on the Moon. One operator said, 'The Moon? Really? Do you have a number and area code?' Another took it in stride, said, 'All right.' The newsman asked how long it would take, and the operator replied she didn't know; and he was discouraged when, after asking if he could wait, the operator replied 'Okay.' Many operators laughed, but one ended the fun with a rejoiner 'Sir, there are no connections for civilians to the Moon at this time. We are sorry.'" "George C. Scott and Ali McGraw have been honored - -
And that was the call Al was waiting for, too,
- - "George C. Scott and Ali McGraw have been honored as best actor and actress in the Foreign Press Association's 28th Annual Golden Globe Presentations in Beverly Hills, California. Miss McGraw received her award for her part in 'Love Story.' Scott was selected for his part as General George Patton in 'Patton.'" "Houston - At the River Oaks Country Club, golf pro Jack Arden was quoted in this morning's paper as saying that, 'Al has got a pretty good swing and could be a real good player if he worked at it.'" Along that line in the other golf news, Arnold Palmer, Tom Shore, and Dewitt Weaver are all tied for first place in The Hawaiian Open with scores of 204. That was after a third round yesterday, and a final round is to be played today.
The only way Al can keep his arm straight, though, is to wear the suit, and that gets cumbersome on the golf course.
Roger that. "The Houston Astros have passed the halfway point in signing on new players for the 1971 season. Signed contracts have come in from 23 of the 43 players who are scheduled to see spring training action. Regulars, such as pitchers Don Wilson and Tom Griffin, catcher John Edwards, and infielders Denis Menke and Bob Watson, and outfielder Norm Miller are already signed up. Also, the Astros have commitments from both their newest acquisitions from the Chicago Cubs, infielder Roger Metzger and catcher/first baseman Jack Hiatt." "New Mexico's Governor Bruce King and his predecessor David Cargo are in a dispute over who owns the Moon rocks presented to Cargo by President Nixon. Cargo took them when he left office December 31- King said he has asked the former Governor to return them back because, 'I think they belong to the State.'" "Charlotte Amalie (St. Thomas), Virgin Islands - the U.S. Virgin Islands is planning a permanent ocean-floor laboratory in Great Lamasher Bay, St. John, to provide a low-cost method of charting the untracked jungles of the world's oceans. The habitat, a large tubular twin-chamber cylinder, will be modeled after the one used in the recent Tektite Program and be financed by the Virgin Islands Government and private industry. The Navy says its first rescue minisub has shown it can locate a submarine trapped under water, lock onto it, and bring its crew to safety. The rescue vessel proved itself in test at a depth of more than 150 feet off San Clemente Island. The 50-foot sub located a metal structure representing a submarine, locked a transfer hatch over it, and brought a man through. They've dubbed the vessel 'the green torpedo.'" On the basketball scene, UCLA put the skids on USC in the big west coast basketball game last night. In a come-from-behind victory, the Bruins edged the Trojans 64 to 60. The Houston Cougars had a real battle with Seattle University at the Hofheinz Pavilion last night. They squeezed out a 93 to 92 win. In the Southwest Conference action, the Rice Owls dumped the Texas Tech Raiders by 80 to 64. Rice, smarting from a three-game losing streak, stopped the Raiders' three-game winning streak. Tech is number - Tech is 4-2 for the season; Rice, 3 and 3. In automobile racing, A. J. Foyt showed his driving prowess by winning the pole position for the big Daytona 500 on February 14. Foyt wowed the crowd as he turned in a qualifying lap time over the 2-and-one-half-mile oval with a clocking of 182.7-Defending stock car champion Bobby Isaac was second with a speed of 180.5 per hour. Foyt, who has never won the Daytona 500, is the favorite now with Isaac to win the 200,000 dollar auto classic. Former U.S. Davis Cupper Arthur Ashe defeated Clark Graebner of New York in the semifinals of the Fidelity invitational tennis tournament in Richmond, Virginia. And that about wraps up the morning news. Over.?
That's a very good rundown, Bruce. Very good. Why don't you let us hold off on the answer on the ISA for a minute? We'll run back over our checkout list and review those items while you're probably doing the same thing down there, and we'11 get back together with you a little bit later in the day on a good wave.
Roger. There's certainly no rush on it. We'd just like to know, at - prior to entry, so that we can determine whether it needs to be tied down or not, and if it affects the c.g. any.
Okay. We think the additional items are about 5 pounds; and let us go back over the checklist, and we'll give you a good answer later on.
Roger. And when Ed feels in the mood for it, I've got a couple more questions for the AGS.
Fire away.
Go ahead, Bruce; I'm ready.
Okay, Ed. When the trouble first showed up, was there anything showing or was there anything left showing in the DEDA? And was it possible for you to clear this display, if there was anything showing? Over.
That's negative. The first time I noticed that there was a problem was when you called my attention to it, that - I don't recall what - don't remember what the call was - but you asked about the - I guess the circuit breakers on the DEDA or on the AGS. That was the first time I ever realized that we had a problem. There was nothing showing on the DSKY. And, of course, I could not ENTER the DSKY or CLEAR it or anything else.
Okay. I guess that about sums it up.
There is one comment. I noticed, just before leaving the LM, there appeared to be a very small crack across the address register on the DEDA. Now, how long it had been there, whether it was bumped after docking, or when it occurred, I have no idea. But there did appear to be a crack in the inner glass on the address register.
Okay. Thank you.
14, this is Houston, On your waste water dump scheduled for 166 hours, we'd like you to dump to 25 percent onboard indication. Over.
Roger. Waste water dump to 25 percent onboard indication.
Roger.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. For systems recordkeeping purposes, if you have time, we'd like you to run an EMS null bias check, and give us the results on it.
Houston, I think we have that number. Stand by.
Okay, minus 990 is the number.
Roger. We copy minus 990.
14, Houston. We'd like to get this waste-water dump out of the way before the midcourse burn. Over.
Roger. We'll start it right now.
14, this is Houston. We show oxygen still flowing in the fuel cell purge.
It's Off.
14, this is Houston; 1 minute to the burn. We'd like you to terminate the water dump at this time, and go ahead and ENTER on your maneuver there.
Okay, we'll be there.
Your slip Tig is okay, 14.
We're going to just go ahead and burn it on time.
Okay.
Okay, Houston; the burn is complete.
Houston. Roger, out.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, Bruce. I started this maneuver at optics CAL; I don't know if we'll have the High Gain there or not. Do you want to do the uplinking here? I kind of hate to stop the maneuver. Is Omni Charlie going to be all right for you for the uplink?
That?s affirmative, Houston - 14.
Okay, thank you.
Apollo.
Go ahead, Houston.
All right, 14; this is Houston. Could you give us the reading on the Delta-V counter on the EMS at the end of your burn, again, for systems tracking? Over.
That was 0.3; plus 0.3.
Roger. Plus 0.3. Thank you.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Request Omni Charlie. Over.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Okay, Bruce. Are you ready for the uplink?
That's affirmative. We're ready to send you up what will become the CM - the CSM state vector after we ship it over, and then there will be about a 2-minute delay while we get the MSFN-computed CSM state vector that goes in the LM slot out to the side. Over.
Okay. We're P00 and Accept, and standing by at your convenience.
Roger; out.
14, this is Houston. We're through with the uplink. Computer's yours.
Okay.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Bruce.
Say, Ed, We've got some modifications to the high-oxygen-flow tests procedures, here, if you'll advise us when you're ready to copy. Over.
Roger. Stand by.
I understand you're ready to copy, Ed. Over.
Stand by.
Okay, Bruce. What page do you want worked on?
Okay. If you look on page 3-245 of the Flight Plan, the one that starts at 168 hours.
Okay.
Okay. There are three steps there, that are: circuit breaker O2 Isolation/Aux Bat, close, which is panel 226; O2 Tank 3 Isolation valve, Closed, momentary; and O2 Tank 3 Isolation valve talk back barberpole. We'd like to move those three steps up to 167 hours. Over.
Okay. The three steps: circuit breaker O2 Isolation/Aux Bat, closed; O2 Tank 3 ISOL valve, Closed, momentary; and O2 Tank 3 ISOL valve talkback barberpole. These are moved to 167 hours.
Roger. And, also, at 167 hours: circuit breaker Oxygen Tank 3, 50-Watt Heaters, open, 226. Over.
Okay. Say it again, want you want done with that one.
Okay. Also, at 167 hours, we want to open the circuit breaker for Oxygen Tank Number 3, 50-Watt Heaters. That's CB O2 Tank 3, 50-Watt Heaters, open, on Panel 226. Over.
Okay. You want the Tank 3 - O2 Tank 3, 50-Watt Heaters, Open.
That's affirmative. You may commence the O2 high-flow tests at your convenience, following Stu's completion of the P23. Over.
I understand.
Item number 3. The new heater redline temperature is 350 degrees Fahrenheit - that's 350 degrees Fahrenheit, which corresponds to 3-6. I say again - 3.6 volts on the Systems Test Meter. Over
Bruce, say again what the 350 degrees of redline is.
Roger, that's the redline on the heater temperature . Over.
Okay.
And that corresponds to 3-6 volts on the Systems Test Meter.
Thank you.
And, Ed; for tank 3, that's position 1 Charlie on the Systems Test Meter.
Okay, thank you.
Okay. Some general comments, the test should be terminated if communications is lost with MSFN. Over.
Understand. You mean - you mean other than just a dropout.
That's affirmative. If we lose communication for any extended period of time.
Okay.
And, for your information, the minimum cabin pressure that we are expecting is in the vicinity of 4.4 to 4.2 psia. However, if the cabin pressure falls below 4.0 psia, you should terminate the test. Over.
Okay. Understand you're expecting 4,2 to 4.4 cabin pressure; if it drops below 4.0, we're to terminate the test.
Roger. And if you're unable to terminate more rapidly than is required to keep the cabin pressure above 3.T, then bring the surge tank and the Repress back on line to maintain cabin pressure. Over.
Okay.
Okay, Ed; and, on the Systems Test Meter, make that position 1 Bravo, for monitoring tank 3, which is the one that you should be monitoring. Over.
Okay; 1 Bravo, tank 3.
And, then, here's a fairly long one. If tank 3 heater temperature, or tank 1, exceeds 350 degrees Fahrenheit, place the heater switch to Off. I'll go all the way through this once, first. When the pressure drops to 800 psi, place heater switch to On. Monitor tank pressure and heater temperature. Place heater switch to Off when pressure reaches 930 or heater temp reaches 350, whichever occurs first. Test will be terminated if heater temp reaches 350 prior to tank pressure reaching 850 in this mode of operation. And - I'll go right back and start again from the beginning on that one in a minute. Over.
Okay. Let's see if we can find a way to codify it so that it'll be a little easier to understand.
Okay, condition number 1. If the heater temperature exceeds 350 degrees, put the heater switch to Off. Over.
Okay. If the heater in tank 3 exceeds 350, heaters to Off.
Okay. Under the assumption, then, that you're up in a normal operating pressure range when this happens, when the pressure drops - -
Bruce, hold up a minute.
Okay.
Hold up a minute. Let's let Stu complete this P23, and then we'll get back on this. I'm interfering with him by working on the Flight Plan right now.
Okay; tell you what. Just carry out that stuff at 167 hours, and then, whenever you're ready to press on with this, give us a yell, and we'll go back through the rest of these notes. Over.
Okay.
14, Ed; this is Houston. Since we?ve already given you the instructions to terminate the test if communications is lost, it might be more straight forward if we monitored the heater temps and pressures for you down here and advised you of the action required, if any off-nominal action is required . Over.
Okay; that'll be fine.
Roger; then you've got - you got all of it up there now; and if for any reason you should have to terminate, why, the procedures are over there on page 3-248; they're the nominal termination procedures .
Okay, Bruce; will do.
Roger, out.
14, this is Houston. We'd like to initiate charging on battery Bravo. Over.
Okay, stand by.
Come on, now.
All right; go ahead, Houston.
I was just remarking at Stu's Noun 49 value there, plus one-tenth zero.
Well, you're watching the world's leading expert on P23.
Well, I don't know. Jack Swigert wrote a paper on it.
We're aware of that, also. Comment still stands.
Yes, that has nothing to do with Al's comment, Bruce.
Okay, I'll pass that along.
Bruce, you're also watching the world's leading expert on going from CMC Auto to FREE and back.
Roger. We copy that, Al.
Houston, 14. We are applying power to the dump, Auto heater, at 167:25, and we'll be doing the test in about 30 minutes.
Roger, Houston. Roger, out.
14, this is Houston. We show that you're in High Gain Antenna coverage area at the present time. We'd like you to acquire on the High Gain; Pitch, minus 5; Yaw, 250. Over.
Okay, we're shooting for that now. We're at Pitch, minus 5; Yaw, 250.
Roger. Out.
Okay, you should have it now, Houston.
Roger, Al. We've got you loud and clear.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, Al. I just wanted to say, that I get a chance to say hello on the network. You guys did a great job yesterday, and I think things are in beautiful shape coasting home.
Well, thank you, Thomas. Appreciate those kind words. We're coming along well up here, too, right now.
Yes. Stu's marks looking real good, and we had a great team effort on that landing; we'll tell you about it. In fact, I nearly lost all of my hair; would you believe that?
(Laughter) No, that would be pretty hard to believe, Tom.
Roger.
Now, we're pressing ahead with the Flight Plan items here, and we're staying busy.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
Okay, back to our ISA weight problem.
I didn't know we had a problem, but go ahead.
Okay, I was jumped on by both sources, here; it's not a problem; it was a question. The ISA contains the 50 pounds we measured on the surface, less the 100-foot tether, plus the 70-millimeter camera and magazine, plus a pair of EVA gloves, plus the return items on Deke's list.
Okay, Ed. We've got that, and we'll work the arithmetic on the weights from down here and keep you advised. Over.
Thank you, sir.
Roger. Out.
There you go, Bruce.
Okay, Stu. We copied that one for posterity.
You got the last one, Bruce?
Yes, we got that one, too, Stu; but you only get the first one framed and authenticated.
Okay.
You still on Delta Sagittarii?
That's negative. That was the last mark on Antares.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Go ahead, 14.
We're starting the 02 test now. The heaters are going to Auto. Opening up the flow valve.
Delay that. We're standing by to open up the flow valve. It's not open yet.
Okay. Understand, heaters to Auto; and you're standing by on the flow valve. Have you got the Repress package valve, Off?
Yes. We're changing that now.
Okay, Houston. The plug is up; we're flowing at 168:09:50.
Roger, 14.
The screen has been installed on the adapter.
Roger, the screen.
Apollo 14. Stu, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. We continue to get praise of your ability on the P23s. Based on your navigation, your idea of your gamma angle at entry interface is minus 6.1 degrees. The MSFN solution corrected for the midcourse 5 burn, but without any post-midcourse tracking is 6.6 degrees. Over.
Okay. Yes, I noticed - I was comparing a Verb 83 there, Bruce; and I showed 625 miles, or thereabouts, prior to those last two sightings; and then, it was down to - I don't know 100 and some - after that. I think the sightings on the Moon is what really help bring it in. There were a couple of large updates there, I think, that really helped it.
Okay. That sounds like you're doing good work.
Thank you.
14, this is Houston. On telemetry, we're showing a cabin pressure of 4.7 right now and wonder what you've got?
That's about 4.8, what we're showing, Bruce.
Roger. Out.
Okay, 14; Houston. Now, we're showing the surge tank at 750 on our telemetry, now.
As a matter of fact, we were just going to call you on that. We have a bias on our gauge, that's good, we'll stay with - we're going to start the test at 168:30 - 168:29 - I'm sorry, 168:30:00, surge tank valve going Off.
This is Houston. Roger. Out.
14, this is Houston. We'd like you to zero the optics, please.
Okay; stand by. Okay, you've got it.
Roger; thank you.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
14, this is Houston. We're showing an O2 manifold pressure of 8 pounds per square inch absolute, and we'd like to terminate the O2 high-flow test at this time. Further procedures found in your Flight Plan opposite 171 hours 00 minutes GET, deleting the 10-minute step in there - deleting the 10-minute restriction in there. Over.
Okay. At 171 hours, we ... through termination procedures; got you.
Roger.
14, this is Houston. We show the surge tank on line and the manifold pressure back up in the normal operating range, and we'd appreciate it if you'd advise us when you have the orifice closed off. Over.
Roger. It's closed off, now.
Roger. Thank you.
Bruce, what was the reason for terminating the test? I didn't quite understand it.
Okay. The pressure in the O2 manifold, which normally is regulated 85 to 110, got down to 9 psia; and the pressure in your water tanks was falling off from below its regulated range because of the pressure in the manifold. And we just thought it best to terminate the test at this time and reexamine the data that we've got on the plumbing leading down to it, and we'll be back to you with some info on it later. Over.
Okay, we understand. Thank you.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Do you want us to stay in this attitude, or shall we go on to the thermal attitude?
14, this is Houston. Remain in the present attitude until 171 plus 30, and then maneuver to the thermal attitude. Over.
Okay, and what about the isolating of the tank? Do you want to go ahead with those three steps , or do you want to hold off on those?
Stand by on that, Ed. We'll have the answer for you in a minute.
14, this is Houston. Affirmative. Press on with the tank 3 isolation valve opening. Over.
Roger.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead. Houston.
14, this is Houston. Back when you all were running that P37 about an hour ago, we took your state vector and ran it through our computer here; and we got excellent agreement between the two solutions. We both showed a 0.9-foot per second midcourse, and the entry interface times were within 1 second of each other. The reduction here shows that the measurement plane error in the star sighting's themselves was less than 3-arc minutes. So, it's really looking beautiful.
Three-arc minutes, huh?
Right.
Well, that's very good, Bruce. Thank you.
And, with respect to the O2 high-flow test, the feeling down here is that low pressure in the manifold was probably connected with some panel 251 activity, giving a higher flow rate. And if Stu's around, we'd like to discuss for a minute his plans on the demonstrations. Over.
Okay. He's here. Just a minute; we'll put him on.
Houston, 14.
Okay, Stu. We wanted to just get a status report on the demos, if you've'been doing any work on them on the way home, here, and see what your plans were for the TV show this evening.
Okay. Why don't you give us about an hour on that; I'm just in and out. We've been running some of the metal composites, but that - that's nothing to do with TV; all we're going to do there is just show the experiment and talk a little about it. And when you called, I was putting up the heat-flow experiment. We're going to take a look at that one and the liquid transfer and get a hand on it. So, I'll have some word In about an hour.
Okay. We're standing by for the TV at the regular time; and if you could tell us which ones of the metal casting that you've already run, why it might be of interest to people down here. We caught number 4 on the way out.
Yes. We've run 4, 5, 6; and 7 will be the next one.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 14.
14, this is Houston. Go ahead. Over.
Just to clarify a point. We're still planning on starting the TV show at 172:30. Is that correct?
That's affirmative.
Okay. Thank you.
14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay. We'd like to confirm that you did, in fact, turn the heaters and oxygen tank number 1 off for the continuation of our O2 low-flow test here.
We're working on a 50-pound instrument error on that. I think we're reading about 865 right now. How do you look?
Okay. We're reading a little higher down here. Got about 889 showing on the TM.
Okay. That's fine. We'll turn it off now.
Okay; Roger. And for Ed, the folks in Kingston Court wanted me to say hi.
Understand you want Ed on the line.
No, just pass that on to him, and you might remind Stu to listen to his music.
Yes. We - we're listening to the music.
Okay.
Houston, 14. This is Ed. Did you call me?
Ed, this is Houston. Go ahead. Over.
Roger. Did you call me?
I just wanted to say that the folks in Kingston Court said to say "Hello." They'll - -
Thanks, Bruce. Appreciate that.
They'll be watching during the TV demonstration here.
Very good. We're - getting the camera out right now, as a matter of fact.
Okay.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Ed, if you have a couple of minutes, we have a short test we'd like to run on the High Gain Antenna to answer the questions - some questions that the antenna people have and try to tie down a couple of questions that are still in their mind about it.
Okay.
Okay. What we'd like you to do is set the dials to Pitch of plus 25 and Yaw, plus 265, and then go to Manual and Wide and then switch to the Primary High Gain Servo Electronics and try to make a normal reacquisition on the Primary Electronics and hopefully, if it's working, we'll wind up - once you acquire backup in Auto and Narrow. If you have any problems and it won't work properly, just go back to Secondary Electronics and back essentially in the mode you are in now. They want a - one final check on whether Primary Electronics had indeed failed or not. Over.
Okay.
Okay.
Houston, 14.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead.
Okay. It seems to have popped right up very nicely this time.
Okay. It seems to have popped right up very nicely this time.
That's in Primary, right?
That's affirm.
That's firm.
Okay. We'd like to just stay in Primary then, please.
Okay.
Okay.
Ed, where's a pair of scissors? Never mind.
Okay, Ed. That's really all they had to ask you to do. If you have any sort of failure in Auto Track and Primary, then go back to Secondary. Over.
Wilco.
Apollo 14, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Yes, how's your health up there today?
Oh, we're just fine, Deke. Everybody's in great shape. We had a little sleep last night. Everybody's a little bit tired after 2 full days, but we're fine now. And we're making preparations to run the TV show here. We're playing with the experiments a little bit ahead of time to get organized. And we're just going along fine.
Outstanding. You guys did a beautiful job and you sound great.
We've got one...
Okay, thank you very much, Deke.
...we've got one quick question here. Wanted to know how you feel at this point about doing that Q and A with the press tomorrow?
Sounds good to us. No problems at all with that.
Okay, real fine. Well we're looking...
I think we ought to work out a time - I think we ought to try to work out a time somewhere in the timeline when it's convenient for everybody: the people on the ground and for us also.
Okay, well Flight thinks about 195:30 looks like a good time from all respects down here.
About 195:30?
Roger.
Stand by.
Looks pretty good to us Deke. That's good spot in the timeline from our point of view, also.
Okay, real fine. And they'd like to have TV with that. That gives us good coverage out of Goldstone for that.
Okay, we'll plan on that, then.
Okay, great, Al.
You sound pretty good yourself. How's your sleep level these days?
Well, I gained on you last night. I picked up about 12 hours.
Ho ho ho.
Talked to your bride today and saw her yesterday. Everybody's doing great family-wise.
That's good. Thank you, sir.
You bet.
Apollo 14, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
We'd like to have you go to the thermal attitude as shown at 171:20 in the Flight Plan. Over.
Wilco.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, Ed.
The Flight Plan showing a Narrow Deadband. Is a Wide-band Deadband good enough right now?
Stand by.
A Wide Deadband will be good.
Roger, thank you.
Okay, Stu ... now.
Apollo 14, Houston. We're ready for you to terminate the charge on battery B.
Okay, terminating B at this time.
Roger.
