Hello, 14; Houston.
Good morning, Apollo 14; Houston.
Houston, Apollo 14. Good morning, Freddo.
Good morning, Edgar. It's pretty chilly down here. How's it up there?
Oh, very comfortable; 71 degrees in the cabin. What do you mean by chilly? Is it freezing?
Well, let's see; this little report I've got here says it's supposed to get down to around 28 degrees.
Man, have you moved Houston to the North Pole already?
Yes. There's also a pretty good breeze blowing which doesn't help.
Got the old chill factor down a little bit, huh?
Yes.
Well, hold on a minute. Let's see if I can wake the rest of these guys up.
Okay.
Now there's some grumbling going over - on over here about getting up, Fred, but I think they'll be around in a minute.
Okay. I had suggested that maybe we let you keep your banker's hours, but Flight brought up the point that tomorrow morning you can't afford to sleep in late, so - if you're going to get the job done and get back in - so, we'll try to get you back on the schedule today.
Okay. Fair enough.
And I'll get some of these chores done; I'll be back with you in a few minutes, Freddo.
Okay, Ed.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
Ed, I wonder if we can get you to put O2 tank 3 Heater to Auto; tanks 1 and 2 to Off.
Okay. O2 tank 3 Heater, Auto; 1 and 2 to Off.
Roger.
And, 14; Houston. I've got a few items that there's no big rush on. When you get free, just give me a call.
Okay, Freddo. I'm switching to High Gain as per Flight Plan unless you say otherwise.
Stand by. Okay, Ed. Why don't you hold off on that a little bit? One of the - these things that we're in no big hurry on is to play with the comm a little more on the - checking Primary and Secondary, et cetera. But we'll do that in a little while.
Okay. And shall I start battery charge A now?
Roger. You can commence battery charge A.
14, Houston.
Go ahead.
14, Houston. I wonder if you could verify, Ed, that the Tank 3 50-Watt Heater breaker on 226 is open.
Freddo - Freddo, you're breaking up. Wait until we get the antenna in a better position.
Okay.
How do you read now, Ed?
Loud and clear, Freddo.
Okay. Since we had that tank 3 back in the line, we just wanted to verify that the Tank 3 50-Watt Heater breaker on 226 is still open.
That's verified; it's still open.
Very good.
It's still a mystery as to how it got closed yesterday.
You've just got nimble toes, maybe.
I guess that's quite possible.
And we have the Noun 93s.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Freddo, let me give you our postsleep report.
Okay.
Okay, we each had 4 hours' sleep; PRD for Al is 16059; PRD for Ed, 07057; and. Stu didn't have one; it's broken.
Okay. We copy.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
I've been giving you these confounded medical reports every day; how's your pulse this morning?
It's pretty slow about right now, Ed.
Okay. But you're alive and well and no medication, huh?
Yes. I'm on a different Flight Plan than you are. I'm just fixing to get to my sleep period.
I see. Okay.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Freddo.
Okay. I wonder if you could set your two High Gain knobs to Pitch, minus 40; and Yaw, 90.
Minus 40 and 90. You have it.
Okay.
And, Ed, I wonder if we can get - get you to put the switch to Narrow and Reacq.
Narrow and Reacq. You have it.
Roger.
Okay. And Ed, we'll - we're just going to sit here a little while; and then, we'll look at it -make sure it doesn't drift off - before we proceed any further.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Freddo, I'm ready to copy the consumables update.
Okay. It's GET of 186 hours; your RCS total, 40 - stand by 1.
Okay, Ed. RCS total, 46.2; quad A, 47.0; B, 43.7; C, 47.1; and Delta, 46.9; H2 tanks: 1, 38.1; 2, 36.9; 02 tank 1, 67*0; and number 2, 68.6; and number 3 is 15.2.
Okay. Readback: At GET 186:00; RCS total, 46.2; quads: 47.0, 43.7, 47.1, 46.9; hydrogen: 38.1, 36.9; oxygen: 67.0, 68.6, 15.2.
Okay. Good readback.
14, Houston.
Go ahead, Freddo.
Okay, looks like that High Gain has drifted. Would you select Manual, and when it's back to your preset knob settings there, go back to Reacq for us; and then select High Gain; and we'll command it then.
Okay,
Okay. You got it.
Okay, Ed.
Houston.
Okay.
9
Well, don't do it now. Move on.
let me do it,
Very good.
Houston, 14.
14, this is Houston. Over.
Good morning, Bruce. The EMS entry check passed okay.
Oh, very good, Stu.
14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
If you could give us a status report on the progress of the inflight demos, especially any that you consider that you've completed, we can release some of the supporting personnel. Over.
Okay. I guess we need to talk about that. We completed the heat-flow and convection experiment all the way; never did really get too many good results on our Benard cells, but we got some. We finished - essentially, we're finished with all the inflight experiments, with the exception of the metal composites, and we're pressing along through those. And I guess we - we don't require any more support.
Okay. Thank you, 14.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston; 14.
14, our current feeling is that midcourse correction number 6 will probably not be required. However, we'll give you a definite decision on that later on, after we get a little bit more tracking. And we have a procedure for further investigation into the light-flash phenomena, which we'd like to get your feelings on. If we don't burn midcourse 6, we're looking at scheduling a period of something on the order of an hour, starting at about 193:45 or 193:50, for this light-flash investigation, and we're wondering how that fits into your onboard schedule. Over.
Stand by 1.
Okay, Bruce. Is - If we do skip midcourse 6, why that'll be all right. We'll - we'll take that time for the light flash.
Roger, Stu. Out.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
14, when you pass out of the region of Omni Delta coverage, we will ground-command you over to the high gain antenna. At this point, however, you will be in a region where reflections from the spacecraft make acquisition marginal. And, if we - if the antenna is not automatically acquired by the time that you get to the calibration attitude, we would like you to take over and commence a normal acquisition at the optics CAL attitude for us. Over.
Okay. We'll do that.
Roger. Out.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead, 14.
Hey, Bruce. Do you want us to go Omni Delta now? You know we're on High Gain now.
14, this is Houston - -
- We're controlling your antenna configuration from the ground here. Just leave the configuration on board as is. Over.
Okay.
14, Houston. We seem to have acquired a good signal strength. How do you read? Over.
Loud and clear, Houston; 14.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 14, this is Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
14, for Stu, we're receiving a - I guess you could call it a carrier from his biomed, but we're getting neither the EKG nor the respiration trace. And we wonder if the harness connectors to the signal conditioners are properly mated up. Over.
Just stand by, Bruce. I'll check that.
Roger. Out.
Okay. Thank you, Stu.
Houston, 14. How does the rest of the crew look on biomeds?
14, this is Houston. Al, you look 4 0 on the biomed. We're not receiving Ed's right now. It looks like he's either turned off or totally disconnected. Over.
Well, he's not on the air right now, but I was wondering how he looked the last time I saw him yesterday....
Yes. The surgeon's telling me you - -
Surgeon's telling me you all look in great shape, and he wasn't concerned about anything.' He Just wanted to find out what the problem was there, because he was getting something that indicated the signal conditioners and - all that were hooked up - and the TM was turned on, but we weren't getting a signal through on top of the carrier there. Over.
Okay. Well, Ed and I had had some... sensor problems earlier, and I just wondered how we were looking now. Thank you.
Roger. Out.
Houston, 14. How's the downlink look to you now?
In what respect, Al? Biomed? Over.
Negative. TM.
Oh, it's looking beautiful to us.
Okay, we're proceeding. We didn't want you to miss the world's expert on 23... here.
Oh, we won't. And I - you can tell Stu I made a hard copy of his 00 Noun 49 yesterday. We'll present it to him, framed, with suitable ceremony.
Very good. You missed some others while you were gone somewhere else.
No, I was here when he made the second one, too, but you don't get a framed certificate for each one.
Oh, okay.
Okay. We copy that one, Stu.
Over.
Roger. Apparently you haven't really taken a look at what 49 should be after long periods of testing. I think we kind of expect that sort of thing, particularly on the first mark.
Roger. Out.
14, Houston. The analysis of your first mark there is that that's within about one and a half sigma, and is, indeed, what we expect on the first mark after a period of time such as this. Over.
Roger. Out.
14, this is Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. On our telemetry, it looks like you accepted an update this last time on star 4; and our recommendation is that the updates from the first three stars be used for navigation updating, and the last ones - 4, 5, and 6 - just for your own benefit in testing out the P23 techniques, but not for updating the state vector. Over.
Okay. Sorry about that, Bruce.
Also, 14; we've noticed the cabin pressure go up slightly here, over some period of time, and we're wondering if you changed the cabin configuration any. You're up to about 5-7 on our telemetry. Over.
Houston, we've been testing out a couple of the oxygen masks for a while this morning. That may have done it. We'll keep an eye on it.
Roger. It's certainly no problem; you just had the EECOMs a little confused here.
Well, perhaps the problem was here.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. We show that you're damped out sufficiently to start the spinup at this time. Over.
Okay, Houston. We will do that very thing. Thank you.
Houston, 14.
Go ahead.
Got a little something for you. (Camelot from "Camelot" plays, performed by Richard Burton.)
Oh, I got in on the tail end of that one.
I appreciate you thinking about me, Al.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. We'd like to terminate battery Alpha charging at this time. Over.
Okay.
(Music: The Lusty Month of May from "Camelot", performed by Julie Andrews and ensemble.)
14, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
14, we're still working on these docking probe procedures. And we'll give you a call later on today when we've got them finalized. Over.
Okeydoke, Bruce. That will be fine.
And, for our information, can you tell us whether the contingency lunar sample decontamination bag is available in the Command Module or whether you jettisoned that with the LM? Over.
Bruce, I'm not sure we can answer that without some looking around. It may be here, or we may have used it. Just a minute.
Okay; well, we don't need an answer immediately. We're considering using this bag, if it's available, to go over the head of the docking probe, in order to protect it from any salt spray after splashdown. Over.
Okay, we'll try and get an answer for you.
Thank you.
14, this is Houston. On our last request, that won't be required. We've got two other bag candidates that we've identified, and we can use one of them. Over.
That'll be fine, if they didn't go to the same place as the contingency sample bag.
No; what we're talking about is one of the temporary stowage bags with the - the purse assembly up at the top cut off - or the bag in which the hoses for the liquid transfer demo are stowed. Over.
Okay. We've got another little - got another alternative for you. I can see our shaving kit -razor bag sitting here, or the exerciser bag should be about the same size and work very well.
I'm getting some headshakes down here, Ed, that says those bags won't fit over the head of the probe.
Neither of them? Doesn't matter to us. We'll put anything over it you like.
Okay, we can go and try those out on the mockup. We had not. tried to fit those two bags that you mentioned. We do believe that - we know that the temporary stowage bag or the liquid transfer demo hose bags will fit. We'll get back to you - -
Okay, fine. Either one of those will be great.
All right; we'll get back to you later on with the finalized procedure. Thank you.
Okay.
Apollo 14, this is Houston. Over.
Houston, 14. Go ahead.
In looking at your flight-plan activities for this afternoon, since we are still holding on the final probe stowage procedures, we're wondering how you'd feel about doing some of the light-flash stuff during the next hour here. Over.
I thought we originally discussed that as a replacement for the midcourse.
We did. However, we're now looking at the possibility of getting the probe tied down, roughly in this time period, instead. And one of the items that we're going to use, - or planning to use in tying down the probe is a rendezvous window shade, and it would be hard to get good dark adaptation inside after using the window shade as a shim. Over.
It would also be hard to sleep this evening after using the rendezvous window shade as a shim.
Roger, 14. But looking ahead in the time line for the activities coming up tomorrow - that is, after your sleep period this evening, it looks like you're going to be relatively busy, and we'd like to allocate about an hour, or maybe even a little more, to - to getting the probe configured and properly tied down in its position. And, I guess, if - We've been looking for a good place to fit that in, and we don't see an obvious slot in tomorrow's Flight Plan, although we could take another look at rearranging things somewhat. Over.
Oh, I completely agree. I think we ought to get the probe stowed today and forget about it, Hold on just a minute; we'll look at the Flight Plan.
There's a possibility we could rig some sort of a temporary window shade that might not give you complete blackness, but it could be - say, taped in place and would make it dark enough inside for sleeping. Over.
Well, perhaps - possibly, you could put the window shade in place under the probe, get the... on it, and remove it tonight, and then slip it back in tomorrow as the last step, and put it down with...
As I say, Al, we haven't got the final procedure bought off on yet; but, looking at the interim one here, the present location of it would be underneath a book from the flight data file and on top of a sleeping bag down on the aft heat shield, with the probe strapped down pretty tightly against it, using the window cover to spread out the force from one of the pitch arms, so that it doesn't concentrate excessively on the aft heatshield - so that if you get it tied down very securely, it may be difficult to get that window shil - window shade in and out after tying it down. Over.
Okay. Well, how's about looking at something else in place of the window shade, because we'd like to get a good night's sleep tonight, if we can.
Okay. We'll look at it.
