30 Central Time. This is a rather short sleep period, slightly under 6 hours, the object being to get the crew back onto Houston time day-night cycle eventually. The cycle is disturbed somewhat by the - initially what would have been a night launch, and ended up being a - a morning launch - early morning launch, at least in Cape time. And a handover to the Goldstone 210-foot [64-metre] tracking antenna, about 8 minutes ago. And that station at the present time is handling spacecraft data, and when the crew awakens will handle the voice transmissions between the Control Center and the crew of Apollo 17. At 13 hours, 28 minutes Ground Elapsed Time; this is Apollo Control.
53 pm last night Central Time. However, to get the Flight Plan back on the actual indicated Ground Elapsed Times shown in the Flight Plan at approximately 64 hours they're going to have what is called a GET update of some 2 hours and 40 minutes to force the event times in the Flight Plan to agree with actual Ground Elapsed Times flown in the mission. We'll come up again in about a half hour as Parker makes his initial wake up call to the crew. And at 14 hours, 29 minutes; this is Apollo Control.
Apollo 17, Houston. Good morning. [Pause.]
Hello, Robert.
Glad to have you with us again. You guys got a good night's sleep, we think.
Well, I'll tell you, it was [laughter] looked forward to. [Long pause.]
Give us a few minutes here and we'll - get operational. [Pause.]
Roger. Give us a call when you're ready to talk to people. [Pause.]
Okay.
Yeah, from the looks of things, Bob, down there, it looks like getting off last night was a good idea.
Got a new CapCom now, Geno. Why? Looks kind of cloudy down there?
Yeah. Hello, Gordo. How you doing? Yeah, I'm looking - oh, we're probably directly over - just west of the - out in the Pacific, but abeam of the bottom third of South America, I suppose. And I've got North America, Mexico, and the U.S. on the top third - the top 25 per cent of the Earth. And it looks like you've got cloud cover from somewhere where the coast bends around Corpus right on north into the Great Lakes and is completely out into the Atlantic, including covering Florida out there.
Roger. I can verify the part between the Cape and Houston, anyway. [Pause.]
Yeah, the Gulf looks like it's pretty well filled with clouds. Looks pretty thick from here.
Roger.
However, if you're interested in going to South America, the whole continent looks - looks pretty good. A few clouds; but, for the most part, you can see the entire continent.
Rog. Guess it's summertime down there. [Pause.]
Okay, Gordo. We're - we're stirring slowly. We'll get back with you here.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Gordo, one question. How does the spacecraft look to you? I didn't hear anything all night long as far as any Master Alarms or anything.
I'm getting the word that nothing was seen here either. It looks absolutely super.
Very good.
Okay, Bob, I've - or Gordo, I've got H2 Heaters 1 and 2, Off now.
Roger, Gene.
Hello, Houston; America. [Pause.]
Go ahead, America.
Okay, Gordo. I'm looking over the Flight Plan today. We'll be with you with the postsleep checklist, and primarily it looks like a P23 day for Ron and what we'd primarily like to do is spend a good part of that time getting the spacecraft cleaned up, reshuffled, restowed a little bit, and get it in order for the next few days ahead. It doesn't look like today's that big of a day.
Okay. [Pause.] Geno, I might give you some words on what we have in mind to get the GET back in sync here, if - if you want to hear those while you're looking through the upcoming hours.
Yeah, why don't you - why don't you pass a few words on that?
Okay. The plan we're considering, and we're offering it to you now for your opinion, is at 65 hours GET, we'll update, and at the time the clock goes to 65, we'll update it 2 hours and 40 minutes to 67:40. And we're shaping your trajectory such that you'll arrive at the Moon at the same time, GMT, as you would have, had you launched on time. In other words, your translunar time is 2 hours and 40 minutes less. So once we do that, we'll be back with all the right times in the Flight Plan without any updating. And the one thing we think of is that your next day will, which is now a 16-hour day, will shorten to a 13-hour and 20-minute day. But that's about the only real effect we can see. How does that sound?
Yeah, we - we'll get to the Moon, you say, the same GMT, so all our sunrise, sunset, lunar-orbit activities, and Sun angle at landing will be the same. And let me - I'll - it sounds pretty good, Gordo. I just want to take a look at that day that you're shortening and see what we're doing in there.
Okay. It doesn't cut out anything. In fact, we picked a time that's pretty much dead time as far as the Flight Plan goes. Take a look, and we'll talk about it later.
Okay. [Pause.]
Good morning, Gordy. This is Jack.
Good morning, Jack. [Pause.]
Let me fill my square on the postsleep checklist. I've got 24030, PRD.
Okay.
And I slept in and out - probably totaled about 4 hours in that last period. But I feel pretty good in spite of that, and expect now that I've educated myself on how to sleep, that it'll pick up the next time around.
Roger. [Pause.]
No medication yet, but I'm considering a couple of aspirin. I'll let you know if I take them.
Roger.
And, fluids? Let's see, I guess I've had two of your little water-measurement-containers full so far, plus the meal I had in my pocket. And I'll catch up on - I think I'm a little dehydrated. I'll catch up on fluids with breakfast.
Okay.
And my meal yesterday was the meal B in the pocket.
Roger. Meal B. [Pause.]
And I guess consumables update. That's mainly yours.
Rog...
There's plenty there. And I'll wait for your words on that. And the watch is wound.
Roger. [Pause.] Okay. Got the consumables update numbers, if you're ready to copy.
No, not quite, Gordy. I'll give you a buzz.
Okay. No hurry. [Long pause.]
Okay. The CMPs rad's 1509.
Okay.
15019. 15019.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Gordy, this is Jack. How do you want to send the consumable - consumables information?
We were just discussing that here. Used to - in flights gone by, there was a place in the Flight Plan, a little form to fill out. But we're trying to figure out if there is such a place in the current data file. Do you know of one?
Well, I'll tell you what I've got. I've got the consumables curves, and if there are any major changes to those curves, I guess you could give them to me, and I'll put them on as points.
There's no...
Page...
...changes at all.
Okay. And why don't we just do it that way in the future in case there is anything. And that's on page 1-45 and subsequent in the Flight Plan Supplement.
Okay. [Pause.]
Looks like you took good care of my space - my systems last night.
No troubles at all.
Okay, Gordy. Your friendly medical officer up here has some more information for you. CMP, continuing, had about 3 hours of sleep, had - three cans of fluid, of water that is. And he ate everything in meal B but the fruitcake, and he didn't use the brownies and the beverage in meal C.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Okay. And continuing, the CDRs PD - PRD is 17019. He had 3 hours of fair sleep, no medication, and 1½ cans of water, and one-half a sandwich. The CMP's sleep was 3 hours. And I'll try to get more systematic as we go along here.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Jack, we're assuming no - no medication on the CMP. is that right?
That's affirm. We haven't gotten that kit out yet
Okay.
Gordy, it's Jack. Looks like the windows have cleared up pretty well in PTC from the - ice crystals, anyway, that were on window - window 1. The hatch window still seems to have a film of something on it. But, otherwise, they look pretty good.
Okay, sounds good. [Pause.] Jack, while you're there, I might try - we've been talking about consumable updates and what would be the most meaningful way to give you the information. As a trial, for 14 hours, with reference to the charts in the back of the book, which in the case of - in case of all of them, are listed in percentages except the RCS, which is in pounds. On the cryo quantities, when I take all the tank percentages and plot them, it turns out that there's no real significant difference from the lines that are plotted on either hydrogen or oxygen. On RCS, you're running about 3 percent ahead of the line. And if that's a satisfactory way to put it, that's the way we'll give you the - the updates rather than giving you every tank per cent by per cent. Over.
Okay, that's good. That's outstanding.
Mark. Two aspirin for the LMP.
Roger, LMP.
Jack, next time the Surgeon would like a mark on each individual aspirin. [Pause.]
Well, I gave it to you since I swallowed them both simultaneously.
Rog.
I knew they wanted that, Gordy, and that's why I only gave you one.
Okay.
Would they rather have them go down one at a time? [Pause.]
I'll have to go back to the backroom on that.
"This is LMP, Mark, 2 aspirin." He had mentioned earlier in his post-sleep checklist that he was considering taking two aspirins. Apollo 17 is presently 72,843 nautical miles [134,905 km] out from Earth; velocity, 6,477 feet per second [1,974 m/s]. We're continuing to stand by on the air-ground circuit for further conversation as the crew finishes up their meal period and gets what few Flight Plan updates are involved in the day's activity. At 16:26 and standing by, this is Apollo Control.
17, Houston. We see the optic starting to stir there, you can go ahead with a P52, but before you do the P23, we have some updates to it.
Hey, okay, Gordo. We'll do that. [Long pause.]
17, Houston. Can you confirm that you did change the LiOH canister before going to sleep last night?
Well, we can confirm that we didn't. How about that?
Okay.
We'll - Thanks - thanks for reminding us. We'll try that first thing this morning. I was just getting too tired, and the CO2 didn't look quite that high last night, so...
Roger.
...I let it go. [Pause.]
Okay, that's - that's fine. We're not concerned about being late with it.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. That looked like a pretty good one that time. You note the star angle difference?
Roger. We copy.
Okay [chuckle]. I can't see squat out through that telescope. I just hope it lines it up and does the right things. [Pause.] Okay. Those are the torquing angles, and you can let me know when you have them.
Okay. Stand by.
The telescope's no different than any other time. There's just a lot of reflection from the Lunar Module. And even though everybody said that before, you don't quite believe it until you see it yourself. [Long pause.]
Okay, Ron. You're clear to torque it.
Okay. We'll torque it at 54:30.
Okay.
17, Houston. When you - if you can find a stenographer, I got some dictation, some PADs for you and also a Flight Plan update. [Long pause.]
Stand by 1, Gordo.
Okay, Gordy.
P37.
Oh, okay. Stand by. [Pause.] Okay, Ron's ready to copy.
P37 PAD first.
Okay. [Pause.] Okay, the P37 block data for 35 hours. Well, we've got 35, 45, 55 and 65. GET ignition of 035:00. Delta-VT is 5326, minus 175, 081:39. For a GET of 045:00, 7728, minus 177, 081:18. For a GET of 055:00, 5859, minus 175, 105:30. GET of 065:00, 4703, minus 175, 129:40. [Pause.]
Okay, I'll read that. Let's see, 35:00 at 5326, minus 175, and 81:39. At 45:00, 7728, minus 177, and 81:18. At 55:00, it's 5859, minus 175, 105:30. At 65:00, it's 4703, minus 175, and 129:40.
Okay, that's correct. I've got a maneuver PAD for you. It's a flyby maneuver at a time of 81 hours, which is 5 hours prior to LOI, This is required because you're presently on an impacting trajectory. And this is assuming you wouldn't do midcourse 2. Midcourse 2 will put you on a - on the proper trajectory. If you can get a maneuver PAD out, I'll give it to you.
Okay. That's in work.
Okay, Houston. This is 17. Ready for the flyby PAD. [Pause.]
Okay, Ron. We're just watching your roll angle. You're going to - we're going to be updating the optics cal attitude. And the roll will be 164, and you're coming up on that so maybe you want to stop the PTC near that roll angle first.
Hey, that's a good idea. [Pause.]
Gordy [garble]. [Long pause.]
Gordy, did you read Jack?
Loud and clear, Jack.
I can take the PAD, if you want to while Ron stops PTC.
Okay. Why don't I give you the update to the Flight Plan, since that'll give you the new attitude and also the - a change in the star for the P23. And then Ron can get on with that. The PAD we can get after that.
Go ahead.
Okay. Turn to 17 hours in the Flight Plan, page 18. [Pause.]
Go ahead.
Okay. The "Verb 49 maneuver to optics cal attitude" right at the top of the page. Cross out the attitude numbers and replace them with "Roll, 164; pitch, 301; and yaw, 348; at a High Gain pitch angle of minus 48 and a yaw of 315." Over. [Pause.]
Okay; 164, 301, 348, minus 48, and 315.
That's correct. Now go down a few lines to the sighting attitude at - one's at 17 hours and 15 minutes. And cross out that attitude and the High Gain pitch angle and change to a roll of 196; pitch, 304; and yaw, 348. High Gain pitch is a minus 61, and the yaw remains the same, 357. Over.
Okay, 196, 304, 348, minus 61.
That's correct. And now, on the first star of P23, we're going to change the star, so cross out - replace the Noun 70 numbers with star 21. That would be three balls 21. And delete the Noun 88 and the vector numbers there. [Long pause.]
Okay, star 21 and no Noun 88s.
Right. And over on the right where it says "Merak," you can write in "Alphard." That's what 21 is. [Long pause.]
Okay.
Okay. Now down on the next page; at 18 hours and 20 minutes; where it says "Optics calibration attitude." We got to put in the same thing as - the same change as above. We want, instead of 175, 298, 330, change that to 164, 301, and 348. High Gain of minus 48 and 315. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, 164, 301, 348, minus 48, 315. Over.
Okay. [Pause.] Now, about 10 lines down, delete "Charge battery A." We're going to leave battery A [means B] charged for a while longer, since we used up so much of it on the pad last night.
Okay. Delete "Battery charge A," and you want to leave it on B.
Yes. Right. Flip the page. Might as well clean up all of these checklist changes. At 19 hours and 40 minutes; change "Magazine Kilo Kilo" to "Magazine November November". [Pause.]
Okay. That's done.
And then skip a few pages to 24 hours and 30 minutes. [Pause.]
Go ahead.
And at just above the "CSM Systems Checklist" callout there, write in "Charge battery A". [Long pause.]
Okay, I got you.
And we'll be leaving it on battery A all night long. Okay, that's all the - the Flight Plan changes. I've got that flyby PAD when you're ready. [Pause.]
Okay, I'm all set.
Okay. Purpose is flyby, SPS/G&N. The weight is 66839; plus 1.21, minus .02 - correction, the yaw trim is a minus 0.12. Ignition time is 081:17:21.03. Noun 81 is a plus 0091.1, plus 0204.1, plus 0459.3. Attitude is 121, 153, and 321, Apogee is NA; perigee, plus 0021.2. Delta-V total of 0510.8, 1:17, 0506.3. Sextant star: 26, 096.5, 33.9. Boresight star is NA; Noun 61, plus 15.57, minus 175.00; 1099.9, 36243; and GET of 0.05g is 153:24:11. GDC Align stars are Sirius and Rigel; 256, 152, 069 - Ullage is none. And for remarks: number 1 is "Burn docked." number 2 assumes PTC REFSMMAT: number 3; LM weight, 36281; and number 4 is "Assumes no Midcourse 2." Over. [Long pause.]
Okay, Gordy. Do you read that?
I haven't heard anything since I finished the PAD, Jack.
Okay. I'll push the other button then. [Long pause.] Okay, your readback: Flyby, SPS/G&N; 66839; plus 1.21, minus 0.12; 081:17:21.03; plus 0091.1, plus 0204.1, plus 0459.3; 121, 153, 321; HA is NA, plus 0021.0; 0510.8, 1:17, 0506.3; 26, 096.5, 33.9. Boresight star is NA; plus 15.57; minus 175.00; 1099.9, 36243; 153:24:11. Sirius and Rigel; 256, 152, 069. No ullage. Remarks: 1, burn docked; 2, PTC REFSMMAT assumed; 3, LM weight, 36281; and 4, assumes no midcourse 2.
Okay. One correction on perigee of Noun 44. That's a plus 0021.2. [Pause.]
Okay; 0021.2 plus.
And one additional remark. This results in a 187-mile perigee - perilune. [Long pause.]
Okay. I got that.
Okay. For general information, we're planning midcourse 2 tomorrow at about 35:30, and it should be about 10 feet per second [3 m/s]. [Pause.]
Okay. [Long pause.] Strange enough, that's even scheduled at 35:30.
Rog. [Pause.]
I have one reminder to open the Waste Stowage Vent valve as shown on the - at 17 hours there.
Oh, okay. We were just going back to clean up. I think we owe you a LiOH canister change, too.
Rog. We concur with changing it.
And Houston, Apollo 17. We'll maneuver to the optics calibration attitude now.
Okeydoke. [Pause.]
It's funny eating potato soup, and all the soup is all around the outside of the bag. And you get a little hole right down through the middle of it. [Pause.]
How about that? [Long pause.]
It's just like in one g. The spoon isn't quite long enough to reach the bottom without getting your fingers on the side of the bowl.
Rog.
Gordy, I don't know what your weather is like down there, but from here it looks like you're probably overcast today. Might even have a pretty good storm going.
Well, it's gray and cold and a little rain, so your - your call is correct.
Yeah, it looks like Mexico, in general, is pretty nice, although there is a band of east-west trending clouds that start from the - from the Gulf of California, across Sonora and probably up through New Mexico, and over into Texas as far around as I can see. Southern California looks like it's in pretty good shape today, but northern California looks like it's probably overcast. And a major system probably associated with that, that stretches into the northern western United States. [Pause.] But a band of clear weather looks like it stretches from Arizona right on up through, I would guess it - through Colorado and Kansas and probably into the Midwest pretty well.
Rog. You're a regular human weather satellite.
If Ron would just stop his maneuvers I'd tell you some more, but the Earth just set behind the LM.
Rog.
More specifically, it set behind the Rover, which may be a space first. [Long pause.] Pretty impressive storm system down off the west coast of Antarctica.
Roger.
And, Houston. The canister has been changed. Number 3 is in A as per the earlier Flight Plan instructions.
Okay.
Sorry we were late, but we got a little tired last night.
Jack, Houston. We'd like you to go ahead and get that Waste Stowage Vent open now, so we can keep to the schedule on cabin enrichment.
Okay; Ron's getting that. Keep nagging.
Thank you.
That the same as I had before? Ahh. [Long pause.]
Hey, that looks like a pretty good optics cal right there. That's three times. [Pause.] Okay. [Pause.] No, that's not very good. [Pause.]
Ron, we're copying your comments.
Okay. Think we'll use that one there for the optics cal.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay. Let's go to the old sighting attitude. Well, let's put the other thing in there first. [Sigh.]
Yes. That's a pretty good Verb 49. I got the - got an orange Earth in the sextant. Let me put up the old EMP now. [Pause.] If y'all don't need all that light in there, Jack, I could sure - Like the window shade might help a little bit, really. [Pause.] Not - not very much. [Pause.] Okay. Address 304, we want 06. Address 305, 24 44; 306, 60 06, Enter; 307 was 77. [Pause.] Okay, at address 310, we want 15 62, Enter; 311, we want a 52 05, Enter; 330, we'll Verb 30 37. Verb 25 Noun 26, Enter 1. [Pause.] Okay. R-2 is a 44, Enter. R-3 is a 140 - 5. Okay, Enter that. Now, we're ready to go on the first star here; 7 Enter; 23 Enter. [Garble] we don't want to do an optics cal. No, we don't want to do that, whatever. Enter. Okay, first star is 21. Enter. I am going to use the [garble] 110, Enter. Proceed. [Pause.] Son of a gun. [Pause.] Okay, we don't want to do the 180 option, so Enter that one; 19630 [garble] getting pretty close. Okay. Proceed. [Long pause.]
[Garble] mike [garble]. [Pause.]
Okay, we're CMC Optics Zero's Off and low. Now let's see if we can see the old star in there.
Gordy, this is Jack. You guys did a good job fixing that MAS - Master Alarm problem. What did you do? [Pause.]
Jack, did you call?
Yeah, I was wondering what you did to fix the Master Alarm problem. [Pause.]
Ah, let me check and see.
[Laughter.] Yeah, I've got to find the subsolar point. A little bit of an error looks like. [Pause.] Let me see, we'll fix it down a little bit. That really jars us back, doesn't it? [Long pause.]
Jack, I guess all we've done is wish it away, Actually, we think it's still there, and you may - you may get them here later after the waste stowage vent - O2 flow gets on up. [Pause.]
Okay, but those were associated with the accumulator as I recall. Yeah, the random ones is the ones I was interested in. They just seemed to stop. Of course, we haven't been moving switches on 2, but we were getting them without doing that also. [Long pause.]
Okay, there's the old star. Works just like the simulator; you can't see the star when it goes down in the Earth [laughter].
It's still being worked on, Jack. Though we don't have any real concrete story to give you on it yet.
Okay, it seemed to be pretty quiet last night, so that's the only problem.
Okay. Gene, you want to give me CMC Free?
Okay.
Let's see. 379, okay. That's not too bad. There it is; Enter. Release 23; Enter.
Okay.
Yes, I don't know what - what's...
Okay, those would punch a hole in it.
I think that's five on that star. Do you concur that that's five on that star, Houston?
Stand by. Let me check.
I think it was. I'll take another one just in case. [Long pause.]
Okay, Gene. CMC Auto.
Roger.
Okay, Betelgeuse. All right. That's all right; don't move. [Long pause.]
20. Okay. Earth's far horizon; 25 Enter. Plus 02745 Enter. Plus 99128; 28 Enter. Plus 12885 - 12885 - 12885. Okay. Hit. It's okay; want the 180 option, no? Computer [garble] Betelgeuse. Okay, that's Earth's far horizon. [Long pause.]
Punch a hole in them. Yes. Good. Okay, says we're there - Okay. Says the old star comes at the substellar point. Okay, it's the far horizon, the double line is down in the - down in the Earth. Shaft 280; okay. Reach up a little bit here.
Okay. Didn't do such a hot job of putting them on there. You want to go to CMC Free. Okay. Give it a flip that way and a flip thataway and a yaw that way, two yaws that way.
[Singing.] Holy mackerel.
Yeah. That was a good mark.
Gordy, this is LMP.
Hello, Houston; 17. Are you reading?
Go ahead, Jack.
Yeah, you got any news today - to read up to us?
Ah, yeah. As a matter of fact, we have a little bit made up here. I guess along the personal line, we checked with Barbara and Jan and the kids, and they're all back home safe and sound and they mentioned that they're going into their own personal quarantine period, glued to the squawk box. Over.
Okay.
I was afraid you were going to get too personal there, for a minute. [Laughter.]
I'll run down a few quick summaries of this morning's news. Former President Harry Truman has rallied slightly, despite his weakened heart and labored breathing. His doctors report that their main worry is whether his heart is strong enough to withstand the strain, the physical strain of 88 years. Despite the slight rally, Truman's condition is still considered critical. In Paris, Henry Kissinger met with Hanoi's Le Du Tho for four hours yesterday in planned secret talks. Paris newspapers report an imminent cease-fire, but neither Kissinger or Tho indicate that this is true. After the 4-hour talks, Kissinger shook hands; and his aid - got a little typo error here - but neither representative made any comment concerning their meeting. At Camp David, Maryland, President Nixon's press secretary, Ron L. Ziegler, said that Kissinger and Nixon are in close communication by cable concerning the secret peace talks. But Ziegler declined to provide more information about progress in the talks. President Nixon selected Claude S. Brinegar, a California oil executive and a doctor of economics, to be Secretary of Transportation succeeding John A. Volpe. Volpe will become the U.S. ambassador to Italy. Here's one concerning last night's launch. Mrs. Spiro Agnew reportedly made a wish on a falling star just before the delayed launch of Apollo 17. Sitting beside her at the VIP viewing site was Barbara Cernan, who said that she was nervous when the lift-off was postponed. She added, "But Al Bean was there with me. He said not to be concerned." Mrs. Cernan was accompanied by her daughter Tracy, and her mother, Mrs. Jackie Ashley. Mrs. Ron Evans, who saw the launch with her children, Jamie and John, said that she was never worried because everybody knew what they were doing.
[Laughter.]
Good summary, Gordo. We thank you, and our best wishes for the return to health of Mr. Truman.
Roger.
Gordo, we were figuring up here that we probably launched on the 6th of December in Houston and on the 7th of December in Florida.
That's right. You called it right.
Okay, CMC Auto there, Gene, please.
Oh, boy.
Okay, let's use the Verb 23, Enter. Oh, what did I do there. Enter, let's see, is a 110. There, okay. Verb 25 - Enter. Oh, Gamma Prime Leonis. [Coughing] Okay, minus 8490 - 84900, I mean; plus 40299 plus 40299 Enter; plus 34176, plus - 76, Enter; okay, Proceed. 202 [garble] 18, okay. There already. [Garble] I guess. We'll try that one more time. [Garble] CMC, Auto? 196306.
Gordy, you still there?
Okay; that's right.
Go ahead, Jack.
Yes, I mentioned to Bob yesterday how - when we moved away from the Earth - how fragile a piece of blue it looked to be, and that impression certainly grows the farther you get from it. I wish everybody could have a chance to get that impression. Things might go a little easier for us.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay, Gene, [garble] CMC Free?
[Singing.] [Garble] must be making the vector worse and worse instead of better. [Laughter.] Well, it was on the substellar point that time except it was halfway through the Earth almost. Not really.
Hey, Gordy, we haven't really had a clear and detailed description of what you or somebody else saw at the launch, in terms of the lighting around the countryside, the state of the flame, and how long the - exhaust was under the S-IC. Do you have anything to add to that?
Well, I can give you my feelings, anyway. It was a spectacular sight, and no doubt about it. I'd say the level of illumination would have made it easy to - to read a newspaper or anything like that from my vantage point near the VAB. The - the plume itself actually looked no larger or - or even any brighter, really, except in contrast, than it does on a day launch by comparison. But - well, the effect, I guess, was about what I expected just trying to extrapolate previous launches into a nighttime situation. The weather was very clear. That was one advantage gained by delaying the launch the 2 hours and 40 minutes that you did. By that time, there were very few clouds around at all. And we could see a brilliant flash there when the first stage cut off and the second stage ignited. And I lost you visually probably, oh, 4 to 5 minutes into the second stage, as best I can remember. Part of the problem was the brightness of the plume during the first stage, it kind of burned a spot on my eye; and so then I was - had reduced efficiency at looking for a small point of light from there on out. Stu's here with me and he was watching it, too. I'll see if he has anything to add.
Stu who? [Pause.]
He said after that comment he has no comment.
[Laughter.] I'm sorry, Stu.
I can't believe that; Stu always has something to add.
[Singing.] Houston, in case you just noticed, I forgot the Verb 67 until just now. Although, in reality, all we're trying to do here is get a Delta-H measurement anyhow. And, Houston, do you have any feel yet for what the Delta-H is - line has been?
Stand by, Ron. [Long pause.]
Ron, this is Houston. We're not going to be able to give you a handle on the Delta-H until they have a chance to take all the data and reduce it and work it around a little.
Okay, that's mighty fine.
Okay, Geno, CMC Auto? Let's see what's on this star here. Kalinan [sic] - that's Menkalinan, I guess. Okay, Earth far horizon; 23, Enter; 120, Enter; 25, Enter [garble] [Coughing] [Singing] Plus - 7073, Enter; plus 70644, Enter. Okay, that is the unit vector of the star.
Okay, it's a 180 option we don't want. [Garble] the real option. [Laughter.] I guess they're getting - Houston, you must be getting all the good data without the High Gain, huh?
That's affirmative, Ron.
Okay. Okay, let's Enter that. [Long pause.]
Okay, Gene, you go CMC Free now? Yeah, that's about a half a sextant diameter above the - above the horizon. Substellar point looks pretty good, though.
Hey, guys,...
Yeah, not yet.
Yeah, it's on there.
30 Enter - oops! CMC Auto [garble] Now, last star. Oh, that was it. I'm going to go back to the calibration attitude.
Okay, CMC auto engaged, and away we go. [Pause.]
Okay, we got to dump the waste water, too. 10 per cent. [Pause.]
164, 301, and 318 - that's the optics calibration attitude that we want to start with. Put the landmark line of sight mark on star 22. And also the optics line of sight, with optics zero. Let's see, I'll the optics, I guess first.
Okay, Houston, looks like optics calibration here is 89995 - I get that half the time and 997 the rest. So [laughter] we'll use 995, I guess.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay, Houston, you ready for some purges and dumps?
Let me make sure here. We're standing by.
Okay. I'll get going on the O2 purges on the fuel cell.
Okay.
Well, I had my clock on the wrong scale. Is that about 2 minutes, Houston? [Long pause.]
That's good, Jack. [Long pause.]
Did you copy that, Jack? They said that was fine.
Yes, sir, Stu; I copied that. How are you?
Okay; swinging.
That's good to hear.
Sure am enjoying your descriptions. [Pause.]
Well, if I could get Ron off his - work with the optics, we'd look at the Earth some more. But that'll come. Right now I'm seeing all sorts of little ice crystals of various compositions, [laughter] that are moving around, and every one of them bounces off the LM that I can see. No, none of them stick. I noticed that some of them will go into a corner with a fairly high velocity and either be turned around by a double bounce, or just get lost in the corner and have very low velocity when they come out.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Most of them look like they have at least a foot or two per second. [Pause.]
Roger. [Pause.]
Hey, Jack, I was surprised when you said when you got Ron off the optics. Don't tell me that Ron is going to let you look through his optics.
Oh, heavens no! We just move the windows. [Laughter.]
[Laughter.] Okay.
That's for sure. [Long pause.]
Stu, apparently you get - do get some particle/particle collisions, because some of the trajectories are back towards us. [Pause.]
Okay; we're waiting for the explanation of that. [Pause.]
Well, I think it's because the particles are - some of them, you know, are bouncing off the LM and get out into the stream, which normally would have no collisions. How's that? [Pause.] You can say it's not very good. I don't care.
Got to use tact here.
You can terminate the purge on fuel cell 3 - O2.
Yeah. I even forgot to listen for the ding on that one. Thank you.
17, we'll be having a communications handover to Honeysuckle in about a minute and a half.
Okay, Gordo.
That's great. Next time I look at the Earth, I'll see what's happening in Australia.
Okay, Houston. We're starting our waste water dump.
Okay.
Wish us luck. Wish us luck. [Pause.]
Hey, that really goes out! [Long pause.]
Can you give us P00 and Accept? And we'll give you a - a new state vector.
Probably need one after all those marks.
Okay, you've got P00 and Accept.
Roger.
Okay, the vector's in there. It's your computer. [Pause.]
Okay, Gordo. Thank you.
40 and 5:05 pm Central Standard Time this afternoon in which a portion of the release circuit did not receive the air-to-ground and for the benefit of those people who missed that portion of air-to-ground, we'll replay the tapes at this time.
Houston, you going to want to cycle some film here?
That's affirm. We're planning on it. Let me make sure they're ready, though, before you do it.
Well, I didn't want to bring it up, but you're about - 20 minutes late on your cue.
You must have missed our first call.
I probably did.
Jack, we're ready for the pan and mapping camera film cycling. You haven't started into the procedure yet, is that correct?
No, not yet.
Okay, at your convenience, we're ready to - to watch you do it.
Okay. And were those last High Gain - I guess they're still good, huh? You want the High Gain on it?
Okay; we'd like you to use Pitch at minus 50 and Yaw 320 and acquire the High Gain.
Okay, will do.
You have 10 per cent waste water now. You can terminate the dump.
Okay. We're just about there. [Long pause.]
Okay, the old Image Motion is Off.
Roger.
Data Systems are going On. Aux TV is going to Scientific.
Jack, we'd like Auto and Narrow on the High Gain.
There you go. Okay?
Thank you.
Okay. SM/AC Power is coming On. Mapping Camera is going to Standby; talkback's gray. Pan Mode is verified in Standby. Pan Camera Mode? Yeah. Okay Pan Camera is going to Power - now. Barber pole.
Okay, the Pan Camera just went to Power. Okay, Ron's talking to you. Didn't know that.
Roger.
Pan Camera Self Test has gone to Heaters.
High bit rate. Okay; waiting your cue, Gordy.
Okay, stand by.
Okay, Ron, we're ready for the film cycle. [Long pause.]
Okay, Mapping Camera is going On. [Long pause.]
Okay, Pan Camera Self Test is going to Self Test. Talk back's barber pole. Okay, I forgot to time it, yeah.
Okay, talkback went gray on the Pan Camera.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, Pan Camera Power is Off. [Long pause.]
Okay, Mapping Camera is going Off. [Long pause.]
Okay. SM/AC Power is coming Off, huh?
Okay, Houston. Film cycling's complete.
Okay. It looked real good on both cameras.
Very good.
Okay, Gordy. If your friends on your left there are wondering what strange sounds they're hearing, I just got the harness on.
Rog.
And, then, I guess if you're through with the High Gain, I'll go back to Omni Bravo.
Okay. We concur with that idea.
And if I could ever get Ron out of the kitchen, we'd get into PTC.
Jack, you'll be glad to know your heart's beating normally. We have a good signal.
Just so long as it's beating, Gordy. About 20 hours ago, [laughter] I wasn't so sure.
Gordo, [cough] we're maneuvering to the PTC attitude now.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 17. Any recommended quads for damping the PTC rates?
Stand by on that, Ron. We'll give it to you in a minute.
Ron, we're recommending A B for damping and Bravo Delta for roll spinup. I'll say again. Alpha Bravo for damping and Bravo Delta for roll spinup.
Okay, Robert, and welcome back aboard.
Roger, sir.
You know, this eating in zero G is not so bad if you keep your bags right side up. If you keep them that way, you get the right perspective. It's sure something funny, if you turn the bag upside down, and it still doesn't fall out, you know.
Rog.
Having a little peach ambrosia for a snack here.
