30 Ground Elapsed Time, a 10½-foot-per-second posigrade maneuver which will raise the trajectory slightly from an impact trajectory with a minus pericynthion at the Moon, raise it to about 60 nautical miles above the surface. Latest numbers on the S-IVB impact predictions is for impact to take place at a Ground Elapsed Time of 86:58:23 at 6.7 degrees south latitude by 9.7 degrees west longitude. Gold team of flight controllers has settled in for a 10-hour day here in Mission Control, which in addition to the midcourse correction burn, includes the first manning of the Lunar Module, first checkout, which begins at about 40 hours. They start actually, at 39:30 getting the probe and drogue removed from the tunnel, going into the Lunar Module. We'll come back up live with the air-ground when the first call is made to the crew by the spacecraft communicator. And at 32:29, this is Apollo Control.
Apollo 17, Houston. Good morning. [Long pause.]
Is that the best you could do?
That's not very good either. Give us a call when you want to talk to us.
Good morning to you. [Long pause.]
How's everything look, Bob? [Long pause.]
You guys look absolutely super. No problem at all.
Nice way to wake up. Maybe we'll just sleep in for a few more hours.
Stand by. I'll check on that.
[Laughter.]
Bob, 17. How do you read?
17, this is Gordo. Bob just finished up his workday with that last call, and I'll be on now.
Houston, 17. How do you read?
Loud and clear, Jack.
Good morning, Gordy. How you doing?
Real good. How about you?
We all feel pretty good this morning. Got some reports for you.
Okay. Ready to copy.
Okay, on the CDR. PRD is 17025; 6½ hours good sleep. One Seconal, which is the one I reported last night, so that's just one now. Had a - yesterday, midday or so - he had a nausea pill for gas. And we hadn't found the other gas pill, so he tried that one. And he drank, since I last reported, two and a half containers of water.
Roger.
The CDR food intake, as with all of us, is a little bit random, and I don't know exactly the best way to report it, unless you want it all in detail.
Let me check while you go on, and I'll see if they want a detailed description of the food or not. [Long pause.]
Okay. LMP medical. PRD 24036; 5½ to 6 hours good sleep, 1 intermittent. Again, I had a Seconal but that's the same Seconal I mentioned last night. And since last report [pause] I guess one - 2½ containers of fluid. Water. [Pause.]
Okay.
And just for checking on the water intake, you should have me down for six containers of water.
Roger. Six total.
That's affirm. [Pause.]
CMP medical. PRD is 15023; 7½ hours very good sleep. He had the same Seconal we had. And, since last report, has three water containers for a total of six now.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Jack, I guess we do want an accounting of all the food. Whatever you think is the best way to report it. [Long pause.]
Okay, Gordy. Back on the CDR, and I'll just tell you what we ate. For the day 2. CDR: mixed fruit, that's the can, instant breakfast, one vitamin pill, a bag of tea, turkey and gravy, and the wet pack, and orange juice. [Long pause.]
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay, The LMP: cinnamon toast bread, mixed fruit, instant breakfast, coffee, lemonade, peach ambrosia, one vitamin, one slice of bread, grapefruit drink, gingerbread, orange drink. And I have one complaint: somebody slighted me on a caramel candy in meal C.
Rog. [Pause.] We'll start an investigation.
Yes, it was not there. Okay. CMP: the spiced oat cereal, mixed fruit, instant breakfast, and coffee, potato soup, and peach ambrosia. That's all for breakfast. And then later on, he had chocolate pudding and a grape drink. And let's see - we all - You might log him for a vitamin pill and me for a vitamin pill.
Okay.
Oh, yes, I forgot. It's here; one frankfurter, for lunch.
Roger. [Pause.]
And we just changed LiOH canister as per the Flight Plan.
Okay.
And in a minute, I'll have weather report for you.
Very well.
Hey, Gordy.
Go ahead.
Gordy, the null bias check. Plus 0.9 in 100 seconds.
Okay, one question G&C had. Do you do that null bias at a plus 100 or a minus 100 on the EMS counter?
Plus 100.
Okay, and it's increased up to 101.9, right?
No, it increased to 100.9.
Roger. Miscopied you; 0.9. Okay; thank you.
Yeah, okay. Seems to me like last night it was 100.7.
Roger. [Long pause.]
And for our part of the postsleep checklist, I have the consumables status, if you'd care to listen. [Long pause.]
Stand by, Gordy.
Gordy, [we'll] take your consumables in a second. Let me bring you up to date on the weather around the world, if you're interested.
Yes, we are; go ahead.
Africa, looks in pretty good shape. There's a - except for an area probably around Zambia and Rhodesia in the tropical convergence zone there, where it looks pretty cloudy and probably quite rainy. There's a very strong circulation pattern and presumably a storm off - just off the coast of northwest Africa. Very spectacular spiral formation of clouds in a cyclone development. It looks like there are probably two fairly weak cyclones - southern hemisphere cyclones in the South Atlantic. One, southwest of Cape of Good Hope, and the other about due west of - of the Falkland Islands, maybe a little bit north of that. South America looks to be in quite good shape weatherwise, except possibly Uruguay and maybe northern Argentina which appear to have a - at least some fairly thick clouds there, although no strong circulation associated with this.
[Garble.]
Okay, Jack. We got all that up to Argentina, then the Omni switch kind of cut you off. [Long pause.]
Jack, we got the - at least the first part of your weather report fine up through the clouds in northern Argentina, and then the switch in Omnis cut you out.
Okay, that was about it, Gordy. That's - I'll talk to you some more later about it. I guess the main thing I need now is your - are your consumables.
Okay. By the way, you were looking back from more than halfway to the Moon. You're about 125,000 [nautical miles, 230,000 km] out now. On the consumables, the RCS is running at 1.3 percent over the Flight Plan line. On the O2, tanks 2 and 3 are right on the lines, and tank 1 is about 4 percent below the line. But it's been there all the way since launch, that same bias on tank 1. On the hydrogen: tanks 1 and 3 are right on the lines, tank 2 is about 3 percent above the line. All in all, you're looking real good consumablewise. [Pause.]
Okay. That's hardly worth writing down, I guess.
That's the way we like to see it.
Same here. [Pause.]
Oh, the only other thing I have in the way of updates is a PIPA bias update. You can load it yourself, or we can load it when we come up with the uplink prior to the burn. Your choice. And then we'll have an update to the erasable load update and a supplement to correspond with that bias update.
Gordy, why don't you go ahead and load it yourself when you send up the vector?
Okay, and I'll give you that update for the supplement. It's on 1-43 whenever you're - whenever it's convenient. [Pause.]
Okay, Jack's getting that out. I ran another PIPA bias at minus 100, and it confirmed the first one. It ended up at 99.2.
Roger. [Pause.]
Go ahead with your update on 1-43, Gordy.
Okay. It's in the load A of the octal ID of 03, which now reads 77252. Change that to 77655. [Long pause.]
Did you copy, Gordy?
I didn't copy your readback; no.
Okay, 306 03 and Alpha 77655.
That's right.
Gordy, how do you read?
Loud and clear.
Okay. For the reference on - on those menus, at least for the LMP, I think I'm probably putting 8 or 9 ounces of water in the citrus drinks and those kind of things, rather than 7, which has probably upped my water intake some.
Okay.
And I think that probably goes for everybody. That probably goes for - it goes for Ron and probably Gene also.
Roger.
17, Houston. I have a little synopsis of the news here, if you'd like to listen during breakfast. Let me know.
Okay, mighty fine. Send it up.
Okay, front page first. In Paris, Henry Kissinger met for 30 minutes this morning with French President George Pompidou at the Elysee Palace just hours before his scheduled conference with North Vietnamese Politburo member Le Duc Tho - Tho, that is. North Vietnamese spokesmen accused Kissinger of attempting to force a peace settlement by threatening further escalation of the war. As both US and North Vietnamese negotiators expressed disappointment at the continued deadlock, Chief American delegate William J. Porter traveled to Brussels to brief Secretary of State William B. Rogers. Rogers will - will return later today from the NATO Conference of Ministers. This one is datel - date - datelined Brussels. Diplomatic sources indicated today that NATO allies will request negotiations with the Soviet Union and its allies on mutual troop reductions in central Europe. Exploratory talks expected to begin about January 31, with full-scale negotiations to follow sometime next fall. In Kansas City, vital life signs for Harry S. Truman appear to have stabilized. But the 88-year-old former President remains on the critical list at Kansas City's Research Hospital. Truman is suffering from lung congestion and heart weakness. In Argentina, aides to popular Argentine politician Juan Peron said that Peron will refuse the nomination to the presidency of Argentina and will return to exile during the coming week. And, on the sports page, Rice coach Al Conover is expected to reveal today - sometime today his decision to either remain at Rice as head coach or move to his alma mater, Wake Forest in a similar position. The Owl head coach has said that he has been offered the job and promises a yes-or-no decision today. There is some speculation that head coach Joe Paterno of Penn State may move to a head coaching job in the pros next year. Paterno is busy preparing his Nittany Lions for a Sugar Bowl meeting with Oklahoma and is refusing to discuss the matter until after the game. Locally, the state high school football playoffs...
Lost you, Gordo.
Say again?
Okay, 17. Continuing after being rudely interrupted by the Omni switch, the state high school football playoffs here at Texas are underway and with a whole host of games scheduled this weekend. And the final item, the Major League Baseball Players' Association and the Commissioner's Office are going at it again. It must be getting close to spring training time.
Gordy, you cut out since the Nittany Lions. [Pause.]
Okay. Did you hear about the - the high school playoffs?
No, the last we heard was the Nittany Lions.
Okay. [Laughter.] Paterno, the head coach at Penn State, may move to a head coaching job in the pros next year. He's busy setting up his Nittany Lions for a Sugar Bowl meeting with Oklahoma and is refusing to discuss the matter until after the game. Here locally, the state high school football players are - playoffs are underway with a whole host of games scheduled for this weekend. And the final item, the - the Major League Baseball Players Association and the Commissioner's Office are going at it again, which means it must be getting close to time for spring training. [Pause.]
No editorials, please [laughter].
Gordy, film update on mag November November. I'm on frame 138, and that includes a couple of pictures I mentioned to Bob I took just before I went to sleep. And also, two pictures this morning at about 33:30. Those are the Earth.
Okay, Jack.
17, Houston. A reminder. We need the H2 Purge Line Heaters, On, now. And I do have a maneuver PAD for the midcourse when you're ready to copy. Over.
Okay. I've already got the Heater, On. And give me about 5 minutes, and I'll get the PAD.
Okay. And if you'll give us Accept and P00, we'll get the up-link started just after the next antenna switch. We want to catch it between switches. Over. [Pause.]
Okay. You got P00 and Accept.
Thank you.
17, it's your computer. You have a state vector, Verb 66, and a target load, and a PIPA bias update.
Very good.
Believe it or not, Gordy, I'm ready for your PAD.
Okay, Jack. It's a midcourse 2, SPS/G&N; the weight is 66786; plus 1.21, minus 0.13; ignition time is 035:29:59.09; minus 0003.4, plus 0002.1, minus 0009.8; attitude is 132, 194, 343; HA and HP are NA; Delta-VT 0010.6, burn time is 0:02, 0006.5; sextant star is 25, 233.7, 16.4; rest of the PAD is NA. Ullage, none. Other remarks; LM weight, 36281. High Gain angles: Pitch, minus 21; Yaw, 181. And this will give you a perilune of 53.1. Should make everybody onboard feel a little more comfortable. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, Gordy. We haven't felt particularly uncomfortable, but knowing no way we would hit the Moon. Here's MCC-2, 7 - SPS/G&N; 66786; plus 1.21, minus 0.13; 035:29:59.09; minus 0003.4, plus 0002.1 And you cut out on Delta-VZ. Give me that again, please.
Okay. Delta-VZ is a minus 0009.8. [Pause.]
Okay. Delta-VZ, minus 0009.8; 132, 194, 343; Noun 44 is NA; 0010.6, 0:02, 0006.5; 25, 233.7, 16.4; rest of PAD is NA. No ullage. LM weight, 36281. High Gain Pitch, minus 21; Yaw, 181. Perilune, 53.1.
Okay. That's a good readback. [Long pause.]
17, Houston. You can go back to Block now. [Long pause.]
Okay. We're in Block. [Long pause.]
Jack, a couple of quick items. We'd like for you to terminate the Battery A charge now, and also turn the H2 tank Heaters for tanks 1 and 2, Off. [Pause.]
Okay. H2 tank Heaters 1 and 2 are Off, and I'll terminate the charge.
Roger.
29:59.1, has a velocity change in the posigrade direction of 10.6 feet per second [3.2 m/s], which for the Service Propulsion System engine is a burp lasting 1.58 seconds. Purpose of this burn is to raise the pericynthion from an impact trajectory as it stands now, to one with a clearance over the Moon of some 53 nautical miles [98 km] which will become the pericynthion of lunar orbit. Standing by on air-ground 1 at 34:59, this is Apollo Control.
Okay, Gordo, there's all balls and 05 on that P52. [Pause.]
Roger. That looks good.
And you're looking at Noun 93. Okay, you're looking at Noun 93. [Long pause.]
Okay, and we Go to torque it. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 17. When we ran the Delta-V test, we - we're reading minus 22.2 and I'm having a little trouble finding the SPS cue card. Wonder if FAO know exactly - knows exactly where that is?
Stand by; I'll check.
Houston, if you saw a Master Alarm, it was the Power SCE Normal switch getting hooked to Off. [Pause.]
Roger. [Long pause.]
As far as we know, the SPS burn card ought to be in with the rest of the cards in R-2.
Gordy, we finally found that thing. It was way back in the back; sorry.
Okay. [Long pause.]
We're starting our purges, Houston.
Roger.
Okay, Houston, We'll get to the attitude in about another 4 minutes or so. Then we'll whip in the P30 and go right into P40. We're doing a waste water dump, urine dump, and - man, the sky is just full of little bitty particles.
Roger, Ron. [Long pause.]
Hey, I doubt if we can get the star sextant check, but you can try it.
Okay. Okay, 35:29:59:09 for the time. Noun 81 - okay, Noun 81s are loaded good. [Pause.]
Just the burn time's good. [Long pause.]
Okay. We'll see if we can get the DET started here. [Long pause.]
Okay; got the DET started.
Jack, you can bring up the High Gain any time now.
In 10 minutes, Jack so we're in good shape. Okay, got the DET. [Garble.]
Yeah, he's dumping waste water. It's about 15. [Pause.] Yeah. Yeah, straight up to Relief, Jack.
And, Jack, also we're showing 10 percent on waste water, now.
[Garble] 786, LM weight. [Pause.] Okay, [garble], Off; [garble], Off. That's what I'm doing now. To what? One three, okay. Here we go. [Long pause.] Set my IMU. Okay. Realign the old GDC a little bit. [Long pause.]
Okay, GDC is aligned. Stab control breakers. All In and good shape.
Manual ATTs are Rate Command; Deadband, Min; Rate to Low. Yeah.
Okay, TVC's in Rate Command. LM/CSM is in LM/CSM. Gimbal Drive's in Auto. Okay.
Jack, this is Houston. We're ready for the High Gain. [Pause.]
[Laughter.]
17, Houston. Do you read? [Pause.]
I think there's no trim on this [garble] Flight Plan.
Okay.
Apollo 17, Houston. How do you copy?
Okay, so X-axis only trim, to 0.2. [Pause.]
No trim if it's greater than 2 feet per second. [Long pause.]
Yeah, we're down to 6 minutes.
Apollo 17, Houston. How do you read?
Okay, Gordo. We got you.
Okay, we weren't getting through there for a minute or 2. We're ready for the High Gain now. [Long pause.]
Okay. Minus [pause] minus 21 and 181.
And 17, You're Go for midcourse 2.
Okay. Sounds good. [Pause.]
And, Jack, you ready for Gimbal Motors? - I mean the Bus Ties? [Pause.]
Ready for the Bus Ties. [Long pause.]
Okay, Tape Recorder, High Bit Rate, Record, Forward, and Command Reset. [Pause.]
Check your Helium Valves and check your [garble].
Okay. Servo Power 1 and 2, we got. [Pause.]
Okay, got Servo Power. AC1 and AC2.
AC, Directs are Off.
BMAGs, 1/2. Okay.
No hardovers. Okay. We'll go to SCS. Okay, Pitch 1, Jack...
Mark it. Yaw 1...
Mark it. Okay. Got a minus - plus 1.1, okay. A minus 0.13; that's almost zero. Okay. Whoo! Man, bounces it around! [Laughter.] little difference.
Okay, we'll give it to the computer. Clockwise. Go TVC TVC. Okay, Pitch 2.
Mark it. Got it. Yaw 2.
Mark it. Got it? Okay, got the trim, about a plus 12 and a minus 0.1. TVC, TVC, TVC, TVC.
Okay, give it to the computer. Returns to zero. Go TVC TVC. Okay.
AC/DC. Directs are Main A/Main B.
Okay, zero BMAGs.
Okay, 50 18. Proceed.
Enter it.
Okay. Uncage BMAGs. [Pause.]
Okay. Let's try a gimbal test. Plus 2, minus 2, 0, plus 2, minus 2, 0. [Pause.]
Okay, she went to trim. 02:38 to go. Okay, we'll reach - Scale was 5 what?
39.
Okay. Rate to High.
Okay, EMS Normal at 1 minute. [Pause.] Yeah, we use bank A. [Pause.]
Two-second burn, we use bank A only. Okay, so in 3 seconds, Jack. [Pause.]
Okay, cycle to [garble], Min, Rate to High, Direct, CMC Auto; uncaged, Rate Command, Gimbal Motors, LM/CSM and Gim - Auto.
Okay, Houston. 01:30 and we're Go onboard for the burn.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. No ullage.
Houston - Houston, I'm sure you've seen it. We're reading below the green band oxidizer pressure, about 163.
Roger.
[Singing] Okay. Let's wait until 30 seconds and...
Control Power is On. [Garble] Delta-V Thrust A switch. Get it and EMS at 30 seconds. Ullage - no ullage. [Pause.]
We're in average g.
Okay, average g is coming. EMS to Normal. Delta-V Thrust A is On. Okay, no manuals to it. You'll get the 99 - Okay? [Pause.]
10 seconds, Houston.
Roger. [Pause.]
99.
Uh-hoo! There we go. Lift-off!
Okay. The burn is on time and - au - auto shutdown
Roger.
Okay. Let's see what kind of trim we got. Yeah, we trimmed it. Trimmed it to 0.2. Yes. Less than 2. Okay, plus 7 on the EMS.
Roger.
I mean on the R-1. [Laughter.]
Okay, we'll trim it out to 2. Plus 0.3. [Pause.] One more chance. Okay, there we go.
Okay, Houston. You're looking at Noun 85, and the EMS is minus 3.3.
Roger, Gene.
Okay, gimbal motors check. Two...
Mark it. Two...
Mark it. One...
Mark it. One...
Mark it.
Okay. Servo Power is Off.
Trans Control Power and Directs are Off.
Delta-V circuit breakers are Open. Hey, we just caught up with all the particles. They're all going with us now. [Long pause.]
Okay, Directs are Off. Pitch and Yaw. Pitch 1, Yaw 1 are Opened. Okay, you got the Delta-V counter? [Long pause.]
Okay. BMAGs are caged. Bus Ties, Jack? [Long pause.]
Okay. Bus Ties are Off. Bit Rate to Low, while you're up there. [Long pause.]
That shouldn't change, I don't think; should it? [Pause.]
Okay. [Long pause.]
Houston, America.
Go ahead. [Pause.]
Okay, the burn was on time. Looked like it was about 2 seconds. Delta-VGX was 0.7. Roll was 132, Pitch was 193, and Yaw was 342. Residuals after trim were zero - plus 0.1, zero, and minus 0.1, and Delta-VC, is minus 3.3. Ox 007. Fuel is 009 and Decrease 50.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Pan Camera's Off. Map Camera's Off, huh? And SM/AC Power will be coming Off, shortly. [Long pause.]
You know, Houston, we must of caught up with every one of those particles. Because we're right in the middle of them. They're going kind of in a random fashion. Most of them are drifting right along with us. Some of them are going against us and away from us. But before we did the burn - you know, the propulsion they got out of the vent sent them all away from us in what looked like - in more or less the X-direction.
How about that.
Say...
We really got a star field out there now [laughter].
Rog.
Say, Gordy, the LM/CM Delta-P is 1 - That's 1.0. You want me to go to Tunnel Vent?
Stand by. [Long pause.]
Yeah, that's affirmative, Geno. You have a Go for Tunnel Vent valve, Vent.
Okay.
17, Houston.
Roger. Go ahead.
Okay, we do want to put Battery A back on Charge as shown in the Flight Plan. And, also, I have a new flyby PAD. No hurry on this one, but it's a flyby PAD post MCC-2. [Pause.]
Okay, Gordo, how quickly should this tunnel vent?
Let me get a reading on that. [Long pause.]
Geno, that should take about an hour. We'll try to remember to occasionally remind you to look at it.
Okay. I'm glad you said that because I don't see any indication of it moving here yet, at all.
Rog.
Houston, 17.
Go ahead.
Never got to give you a 7-Alpha reading on a - after the last charge. It was 0.6 - decimal 6 as before.
Okay. Ed Mitchell - Ed Mitchell must be working. I was just about to ask you for that. And for Geno, one reminder, you will have to switch back to LM/CM Delta-P in order to read the Delta-P. Over.
Yeah, Gordo, I'm - I'm aware of that, and I've done it. But in the about 3 or 4 minutes that I vented, I didn't see any change yet.
Okay. It's a pretty slow process.
Okay, Gordy, battery A is being charged.
Roger, Jack. [Pause.]
And I checked that 7-Alpha in the Vent position, and it's 0.6 also.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. How's the CMP's "zippen" or ZPN?
Let me take a check to my left here.
I'll take a deep breath for you.
Okay, Ron. Your ZPN looks good. [Pause.]
Okay, I don't have the other one on yet. But I was a little bit curious because I left the electrodes in this thing, and - you know, the little sponges, I left those inside the electrodes, but they stuck to - to the back of the electrodes and kind of corroded the inside of it there a little bit.
Evidently, it's working okay.
Okay, mighty fine.
I'll put some new ones in.
Okay, Houston, is my heart beating?
I'm sure it is, Ron, but I'll check to my left.
Okay. [Pause.]
We'll wait a couple of minutes. It takes that long to settle down and give you a reading on it.
Okay. No problem. [Long pause.]
Ron, your EKG looks real good.
Okay. Thank you much.
That's all new, what you call it - those sponges and stuff, you know. [Pause.] And, Houston, I'm not - I'm not putting - putting any cover tape on it, so if it quits - you know, comes loose or something like that, well, let me know and I'll push it on again.
Okay, will do.
You might make a note that Dr. Evans was assisted in that operation by Dr. Schmitt,
Roger, Doctor. [Pause.]
Jack, I've still got this flyby PAD standing by.
Nag, nag, nag. [Pause.]
Can't talk with a mouthful of bread cubes, it all comes out.
Okay, what kind of PAD you want to give me? Flyby, right?
Right. A regular maneuver PAD. [Pause.]
Okay, and I guess the other one I can cross out, right?
That's affirmative. It's obsolete now that you've done midcourse 2. [Long pause.]
Okay, Gordy, I'm all set.
Okay, it's a flyby. SPS/G&N; 66678; plus 1.21, minus 0.13. Ignition time is 081:14:43.49; plus 0043.3, plus 0211.8, plus 0453.2. Attitude is 128, 146, 317; HA is NA. HP is plus 0021.1. Delta-VT, 0502.1. Burn time, 1:18, 0497.6. Sextant star is 25, 189.3, 27.4. Boresight star is NA. Noun 61 is a plus 15.60, minus 175.00; 1101.6, 36242. GET of 05G is 153:24:03 - GDC stars are Sirius and Rigel; 256; 152; 069. Ullage, none. Remarks: 1, burn docked; and number 2, assumes PTC REFSMMAT. And that's it. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, Gordy. Here's your readback. Flyby, SPS/G&N; 66678; plus 1.21, minus 0.13; 081:14:43.49; plus 0043.3, plus 0211.8, plus 0453.2; 128, 146, 317. HA is NA. Plus 0021.1; 0502.1, 1:18, 0497.6; 25, 189.3, 27.4. Boresight, NA. Plus 15.60, minus 175.00; 1101.6, 36242; 153:24:03 - Sirius and Rigel; 256; 152; 069. There's no ullage. Remark 1, burn docked - docked; and 2, PC - PTC REFSMMAT is assumed.
Okay, that's a good readback.
Gordy, I might mention for future reference that we've established a new list of consumables, or at least add it to the old one. Now includes gray tape and tissues.
Okay, you want us to track those?
It might help. We have a heck of a time finding them in here.
Rog.
Oh, you meant quantity-wise.
Yeah, we'll set up in a special back room. [Pause.]
Would you call it the T-T room. Tissue and tape, of course.
Rog.
36, this is Apollo Control.
Apollo 17, Houston. It's been about an hour, you might check the LM Command Module Delta-P again.
Okay; thank you. We'll do that. [Long pause.]
It's 2.2, Gordo; I put it back in Vent.
Okay.
Hello, Houston; America.
Rog, America. Go ahead.
Okay, Gordo. We're up to 2.5 on the tunnel and still venting.
Okay. Is that music we hear in the background?
Yes, sir. (Music: Up, Up, and Away by Brazil '66)
They've been making fun of some of my music. [Garble].
Yes, it's coming down to us in living stereo.
Reminiscent of yesteryear. (Music: Up, Up, and Away by Brazil '66).
Music from America.
Roger. Thank you for the concert. That was very appropriate.
Gordo, Ron went off the air for a minute, and LM Delta-P is now 2.6.
Okay, Gene. [Long pause.]
Geno, we'd like for you to let it get up to 2.8 before closing off the Vent.
(Music) Okay, Gordo. We'll make it 2.8.
Roger.
America, Houston. That was a site handover, the reason we lost signal for a second there.
Okay.
Houston, 17.
Go ahead.
Say, are we going to have a pretty good view of the Earth out of any CSM windows at the LM checkout attitude?
I'll check on that.
We're sort of blocked right now.
Roger.
America, Houston. We're predicting that your LM/CM Delta-P ought to be about right now, about 2.8.
Okay.
We would like a reading...
We'll check it. [Long pause.]
Gordo, 2.9.
Okay. Sounds good.
Ah...
Gordy, the reason I asked about that view of the Earth, we were sort of thinking maybe we might go early, if it was all right with you, and watch the Earth a little bit more.
Okay. We're still trying to get the answer on whether you'll have a window. Stand by. I might have it here.
America, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay. The LM inspection attitude that you'll go to results in kind of a marginal view of the Earth out of window 1, about 60 degrees away from it, boresight - line of sight. And we're - we can - we've started to work on and if you wanted to do is you can go to kind of intermediate attitude, which will be the LM attitude except for roll which would be off by about 60 degrees, which will - will give you a good view of the Earth out of window 1. And then when we get ready to do the LM entry, you can roll that additional 60 degrees to get to the proper attitude, if you wish. Your choice. Over.
Yeah, if that doesn't bother anybody down there, we'd like to do that.
Okay. We'll have something for you here in a few minutes.
Okay. If you're ready to copy, I've a Verb 49 maneuver for you that will let you look at the Earth.
Wait a minute, Gordo, and I'll just let you load it as we go here.
All right. [Long pause.]
Okay; ready to copy.
Okay. Roll is 240, pitch is 089, and yaw is 0. And the High Gain for that attitude, we think it'll probably track to this attitude, is plus 29 and 27.
Okay. Plus 29 and 27.
Roger.
America, Houston. Until you get the attitude, Omni Charlie will probably work better. [Long pause.]
Okay, Gordy. We got you Omni Charlie now.
Okay; loud and clear.
Gordy, for your information we have our LM transfer items in the jettison bag ready to go over and we're pretty well squared away on the, all the Command Module stowage now with minor exceptions.
Okay.
America, Houston. We'd like you to go ahead and get on the High Gain again since - and stop it just wandering around aimlessly. And how does the Earth look now? [Long pause.]
Sorry, Gordy, to be so slow. Earth looks great, and we'll get the High Gain up in just a second.
Okay.
Houston, 17. How do you read?
Go ahead. Loud and clear.
Okay, Gordy, going from south to north on noontime, at least our noontime weather, it looks like there's a fairly strong mass of polar air moving from the southwest up towards Tierra del Fuego. It's mixed with some cloudiness that extends from that area all the way down to the Antarctic ice shelf. But it looks like some pretty good movement patterns from the southwest, north - northeast. No strong weather waves or cyclone development on that yet, although one may be picking up about halfway between Tierra del Fuego and the coast of Antarctica, the - where the front, or at least the cloud masses, curve from the east-west direction to an almost due south direction. Most of South America still looks like pretty good weather. There is cloudiness along the Andean Ridge and also in the Amazon Basin, stretching from the eastern coast of South America on up about, oh, two-thirds of the way towards Central America. It doesn't look like frontal weather there. It's probably tropical convergence weather. Now there is this - still this small, moderately developed cyclone pattern that's hanging pretty much over Buenos Aires now, I think. Uruguay and Buenos Aires. I think I mentioned that earlier in the day. And that still is there, and I suspect those folks are getting a fair amount of weather out of it.
Roger. [Pause.]
Except for scattered clouds, Central America and Mexico, for the most part, are clear - as is most of the Caribbean islands - Cuba and the others are - all look like they've pretty good weather. There's a little clouds off - cloud pattern off to the east of those islands, but it doesn't look like any major weather in that area. The eastern half and Midwest of the United States is completely cloud covered right now. There - however, the - extending from Mexico to Sonora and up into Arizona and New Mexico, and possibly as far north as Colorado, is a clear band. But then there's more cloudiness to the north of that. [Long pause.]
The Pacific regions west of - the West Coast of the United States is cloudy, at least west of Southern California. I cannot see Baja, so that cloudiness extends down south of - into Baja California. I see no strong new frontal patterns, although I'm looking right across the limb of the Earth now. There may be one that would be lying maybe across northern California and - and into Colorado, with a little clear area ahead of it, possibly in Kansas. But then into this, a solid bank of clouds that stretches from Brownsville, at least, clear up to - well, along the Gulf Coast across the panhandle of Florida, up the East Coast and on out past Nova Scotia, I'm sure. Florida is clear. Florida - the peninsular portion of Florida is - it looks very clear and some of the deep turquoise green waters to the south and southeast of that area are - are very obvious at this time. [Pause.]
Roger, Jack. I'm following along on a satellite weather picture here that's taken from about your same vantage point and - although nowhere near the detail that you're describing. [Pause.]
Have you seen today's analysis charts of the United States or North America?
No, I haven't. [Long pause.] I was just told, Jack, that the - the weathermen and a lot of other people around here, too, are following your weather reports with great interest.
Yeah, well, does that mean they're right or wrong? [Laughter.]
You've got the better view, by far.
That doesn't prove much. Okay, Gordy, I'm - I suspect that that's a pretty healthy front. I don't know. Your weather must be cloudy and bad today. Is that right?
It is. We've got about a half-mile vis and drizzly rain.
Okay. Well, I suspect comparable weather extends all the way across the eastern United States. That looks like awful dense clouds, although there's no obvious frontal pattern. It just stretches from the Midwest to the East Coast. And, also, there's no good indication of stratification of those clouds, as if they'd be fairly - fairly thick up to - into the cirrus levels. [Pause.]
Roger, Jack.
Looks like Arizona, New Mexico, and northern Sonora probably have some - one band of high cirrus. But other than that, probably a beautiful day out in that area. [Long pause.]
There's some transverse cloud patterns over the Mississippi-Alabama area. It suggests maybe that the jetstream may be just north of that region. But otherwise, there's no good indication of jetstream position right now.
Rog.
Gordy, there is one minor weather disturbance, possibly just about over Puerto Rico or maybe just - just to the east of that island. No strong circulation patterns, although there's a hint of a cyclone development. There might be just a small depression in that area. I don't know whether your map's carrying anything down there or not.
I think I see what you're talking about on the satellite picture, but I don't have a surface analysis that goes that far. I do - I just now got a copy of the surface charts for the United States. And there's - there's a front stretching from northern Texas northeastward up through Tennessee and Virginia and another one sort of parallel to it. But, this way southward from Louisiana along the Gulf Coast across northern Florida and on out into the Atlantic. And I guess the two are kind of blending together to make that irregular mass of clouds you mentioned.
Okay, Gordy. If I'd been a little more observant I could see that there was a little bit, looks like a decrease in at least the thickness of the clouds, vertical thickness, between the two areas you just mentioned. So, there is some indication here of those two fronts, although they are contributing to a general weather pattern in the eastern United States.
Rog.
I think, with a little experience in this business, you might have picked those two out of that mass. But it's not immediately obvious.
Roger. [Pause.]
You got anything on there coming in from the northwest now, say up in Wyoming and Colorado? [Pause.]
The way it's drawn on this surface chart shows that - that northern front that I mentioned, just now, sort of curving on up through central Colorado, and then bending westward toward - through Utah. That's about the only other frontal activity. There's one, probably dry front, then a short one through central Arizona and southern Utah.
Okay. Well, that makes sense. That would match with that - what I was thinking was high cirrus in Arizona. And also I can see how you could bend - that's the northern front up through Colorado and then back westward to - to explain the patterns we're seeing in the clear areas south of that.
Rog. [Long pause.]
Gordy, the zero-phase point now is off the coast of Chile and Ecuador - oh, maybe 10 or 15 degrees of longitude, and it is fairly dull - does not seem to indicate any great amount of choppiness or wave action in that area.
Roger. [Long pause.]
And about 15 minutes ago, Gordy, I took two more Hasselblad shots of the Earth.
Okay. [Long pause.]
And also, Houston, frame number, let's see, about 16 and 17 were taken of the Earth about 15 minutes ago too. And it's magazine Sierra-Sierra.
Okay, Ron. We copy that. [Pause.]
Gordy, with respect to the ice pack off the coast of Antarctica, it's difficult to distinguish pack ice from clouds, in general. However, the clouds seem to pick up reflection patterns with respect to the Sun. And using that as a - and some shadows in below as the criteria, it looks as if the pack ice in the South Atlantic would extend to a latitude almost comparable to that of Tierra del Fuego. I don't know whether that - that's reasonable or not. [Pause.]
Okay. I don't either. But maybe someone who's more of an expert can clear up your question on that. I'll let you know.
Now to the southwest of Tierra del Fuego there's a - looks like a small cyclone developing, clockwise rotation, just off the edge of the pack ice, and - but it does not seem to be closely associated with the frontal activity that I mentioned when I started out speaking at this - this particular time.
Roger.
There is another - there is another one, maybe a front, a little bit ahead of that cyclone that's now extending north-south. Starts in the pack ice area and extends up - oh, about halfway from there to Buenos Aires - in the direction of Buenos Aires. It doesn't look like a very major mass of air or frontal system. It may develop into something over the next couple days though.
Okay. [Long pause.]
And centered, Gordy, at about 45 south and say 30 west, there is another cyclone area that's ahead of the last front I talked about, that doesn't look - I think I talked about it yesterday - still does not look too strong, although the cloud, as I recall, the cloud cover is somewhat more well developed, and circulation patterns seem to be better developed. It may be an intensifying storm over what we saw yesterday.
Roger. [Pause.]
I cannot see that it's associated with any clear frontal activity, however.
Okay. [Pause.]
That, I presume, should be migrating in the direction of the - of the southeast coast of Africa, so we'll keep an eye on it.
Rog. [Pause.]
And that reminds me, did you get any information on the - that - what looked like a very strong, concentrated typhoon or hurricane in the South Pacific between Borneo and the Philippines?
Let me check and see what we got on that. I wasn't here when you first talked about it evidently.
Well, it was one that they didn't seem to be carrying, and it looked extremely well developed from here. [Long pause.]
Gordy, yesterday that - the one I'm speaking of was centered at about 15 north and a hundred and - make that about 117 east.
Okay. I've been informed that they are - the satellite people are carrying that one now. I'm not sure whether they had seen it before or didn't see it until after you did. But they are aware of it now and are tracking it.
Oh, we're not competing. They just didn't have any information for me on it yesterday. [Long pause.]
We'll probably be able to see that again late this afternoon.
Okay. The one that you just gave the coordinates on is - does have a name, - that's Therese, Hurricane Therese. And - so the - the other one must be the - must not have a name.
Okay. Now which one has - is Therese.
The one you just - the coordinates you gave almost exactly pinpoint Therese.
Okay. That's near the Philippines.
That's affirmative. Between there and Vietnam. [Long pause.]
Okay. Well, then that sounds like - if that's an up-to-date position, it has relatively little movement since yesterday.
Rog. [Pause.] They show it moving just very slightly westward.
Okay. [Pause.]
Are they carrying anything south of Guam now that we talked about yesterday? [Pause.]
Ah, take a minute to get something on that. They don't have a current map showing anything in Guam right now. [Pause.]
And we also had a storm developing south of - or southwest of New Zealand. Might look at that one, too.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Jack, are you making these observations through the monocular? [Pause.]
Yes, sir.
Okay.
Although most of them - well, at this distance, Gordy, the circulation - detailed circulation patterns to say what's a cyclone and what isn't are not visible to the naked eye, at least not to mine.
Rog.
The major frontal patterns are, however.
Jack, that disturbance you mentioned near Guam isn't being carried on the current charts here as anything significant. They do show some cloudiness north of the tropical convergence zone, but just that.
Okay. Well, I had a feeling what I was seeing yesterday might have just been the remnants of Theresa, which I think went - out into that area a couple days ago. It was not a very well-developed system, but did seem - seem to be isolated from the other cloudiness that I would have put into the tropical convergence zone. That was between Wake and Kwajalein.
Roger.
Gordy, let me try to give you a description of something that is a little bit unusual than what we've been seeing. The - there's an axis that runs from, say, the outer portion of the Ross ice shelf along the - and just off the coast of Antarctica, then bends up so that it would pass just to the east of Tierra del Fuego and - and then continues on that heading so that it would intersect the far east coast of South America, if it continued. Now along that axis, the - what appear to be multiple frontal patterns or at least linear cloud bands, bend very sharply and change from a heading that roughly parallels the axis around the one that is roughly north-south. And some of the front - frontal direction changes that I gave you earlier, down in that area, are - also bend around that axis. [Pause.]
Okay.
And there just, oh, there are probably a dozen, if you tried to pull them out, cloud bands between the Ross Sea and Tierra del Fuego that bend around the same axis. Quite striking.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Now there's some indications, to me at any rate, that the jetstream in that area may be essentially east-west - oh, maybe 20 degrees of latitude north of the Ross Sea, and then bends down very sharply so that it intersects the - or approaches the coa- Antarctic ice shelf to the east of the Ross Sea, and then maybe it bends up and forms the axis that I just described that's causing that bending of the cloud patterns.
Okay. Sounds like a good, theory. [Long pause.]
There's a linear clear area in that area north of the Ross Sea that - and to the north of that is a sharply defined front that I talked about earlier. And then, both the - that front continues. The clear area is cut off by the axis that I described, a cloud axis.
Rog.
Now that should show up real well on the 250-millimeter pictures we took. [Pause.] Gordy, I'm back looking at zero-phase. And now, apparently, the exact zero-phase was partially obscured by a cloud pattern earlier. Now, when I - There is a very, very small bright spot in the center of the zero-phase area. Nothing comparable to what I described off the coast of Australia yesterday, but an extremely small spot. I suspect that the size of your bright spot in zero-phase has some direct - or indirect, at any rate, relationship to sea state.
Roger.
Gordy, as you might expect, the whole coastline of Chile is - or all of Chile, practically, is clear. Beautifully exposed to us here, and particular the Atacama Desert, which is noted for that particular characteristic, and - at least among geologists it is. And the coast of Peru is also clear with clouds following the Andean Ridge, probably the - certainly the coast side of the Andean Ridge. Lima ought to be enjoying a very nice day today. The - Ecuador, however, looks like it might have a little more cloudy weather, although it doesn't look like any major storm activity.
Roger.
America, Houston. We have a couple of words here on medications. is everyone listening?
Yeah; we're all on, Gordo. Go ahead.
Okay. Geno, you mentioned taking a nausea pill for some gas yesterday, and we were looking into some of the side effects. You definitely don't want to use that particular pill for gas. One of the side effects is that it's an appetite depressor. And there are some pills loaded in A-7, along with the vitamin pills, specifically for the purpose of eliminating gas. We would appreciate if you'd give us a call in advance prior to taking any medications except the Seconal and aspirin. Over.
Okay, Gordy, will do. I was aware that those gas depressors were around. At the time, we couldn't find them in A-7. And so I took one of those other things, whatever it is. And while you're talking about that, as per the preflight food check, gas is very evident on - particularly on me - and I think I'm suppressing it slowly. But is there any problem, or what do you recommend on that Mylinol [sic] or Mylicon or whatever it is?
Okay. Stand by one.
This goes hand-in-hand with the amount of gas that I experienced preflight.
Okay.
And it's the kind of gas - it's the kind of gas that just stays in your stomach.
Rog. [Long pause.]
Okay, Geno. The recommended use of those gas pills is to chew one after each meal. And then, if needed, chew up another one before going to sleep at night.
Okay; fine. I chewed one after breakfast.
Okay. A little water after you chew it up, I guess, helps its effectiveness.
That's a basic requirement, I believe. The effect of it has not been too obvious yet though.
Roger.
Gordy, you want the O2 Heaters 1 and 2 to Auto now?
That's affirmative. [Pause.]
Okay, They're there. [Long pause.]
Gordy?
Go ahead.
I don't want to cause any concern on that gas. It's no real great problem. It's just a slight discomfort; that's all.
Okay, Gene. I think we understand.
Gordy, I have just eaten my first peanut butter sandwich in orbit around the Earth.
Rog. How was it?
What's that? [Pause.] Well, it was just as good as it was when I was growing up - which means it was great. I grew up on those things, as I recall. [Pause.]
Charlie Duke's here with me and he... [Pause.]
Sure miss the lettuce. Sure missed the lettuce and mayonnaise on mine though.
And, Houston, we'll go ahead and maneuver onto the LM attitude.
Okay. We're watching you. Punch it in there.
Okay.
