Okay. Direct O2 is coming Open now.
Okay.
Direct O2's Off.
Roger.
America, before you open the equalization valve, we'd like one final reading on the LM/CM Delta-P.
Okitydoke.
Okay. With this cabin pressure now, it's up to 3.5, almost 3.6.
Okay, Ron.
Jack, Houston. We're ready to terminate the charge on battery A.
Standby.
CSM/LM pressure equalization, huh? Okay, Cryo Pressure Indicator to Surge/3 and verify cryo. Oh, wait a minute. See if I got the right one here. Recto 2's on.
Okay, Gordo, I cycled the Cryo Pressure Indicator from up to down, back to Surge/3. And we got a Master Alarm and there was no O2 High Flow with it at all.
Okay.
Okay, I just did it again to verify it. And that picked up - it picked up the Master Alarm, although it might be associated with the fact that the surge tank is down and coming back up.
No, I don't think so.
Roger, Gene. Although, the surge tank shouldn't have caused it.
Okay, let me give you one more try on it. Well, that time it didn't wait. All I did was go up to 1 slash 2 and the Alarm came on.
Roger.
Okay, I went back to surge/3; it did not. So maybe it's coming on when I go up to 1 slash 2.
Roger.
Yes, there it is, Gordy. It's definitely repeatable. I can go up to Pressure Cryo Quantity 1 slash 2 and the Alarm comes on.
Okay, Geno; understand.
You might note that - hey...
Okay...
Gordo, you might think about the fact that we were getting them when the cabin pressure was high after launch. And there might be some association there, also.
Okay, a good observation.
Emergency Cabin selector to Off. We got to unbolt it down there somewhere. Underneath the commander's couch. Ah, okay.
Repress Package valve, Off; should be Off.
Okay; verify Direct O2 is Closed. Okay; Tunnel Vent Valve, LM/Command Module Delta-P. Okay, it's greater than 3.1. It's up around 3.6.
Okay, we're going to open the Pressure Equalization Valve.
Okay. Delta-P is 2½.
And, Gordy, battery A charge has been stopped and the battery compartment pressure is still reading 0.6.
Roger, Jack.
Okay. There's a Delta-P of 2. We'll close the equalization valve. Yeah, we'll monitor for 3 minutes now.
Geno, Houston. We just wanted to verify that no - none of the lights in the matrix were - flashed when you operated that switch and got the Master Alarm.
That's affirmative, Gordo; none of the lights flashed at all.
Roger.
When we get the cabin pressure down, Gordy, here, we might try one more time. Which Gene just did.
Okay, and nothing happened?
That's affirm.
Roger.
Okay, still holding at 2.0 on the Delta-P.
Okay, we'll open the pressure equalization valve and when the cabin pressure gets to 4.0, hit the Repress O2, Gene.
Delta-P is about 0.6, we might make it this time.
Delta-P's - Okay, I'm going to open her right up. Delta-P is 0.2 now.
Okay, Houston, the hatch is open.
Roger.
Okay, the Extend Latch is Engaged. Red is not visible. GN2 Bleed button. Okay; GN2 Bleed. Not too much in there.
Okay, Preload Selector lever - rotate parallel to the orange stripe. Okay. Preload Handle, torque clockwise to unload the old support beams.
Ah ha! The probe is big. Whoops - Oh, okay.
The probe's loose in the tunnel. Okay, rotate away from the orange stripe. Torque...
Okay, probe umbilicals. Is the LM Power Off? Proceed - doesn't make any difference. Dock Probe Circuit Breakers undone? That's good and tight.
Oops. This darn thing. Okay.
Son of a buck. Okay, I'm trying putting those things back on now, just for the heck of it. It's brand new; nice and tight.
Can you smell nitrogen? Smell something up here.
Okay, probe umbilicals disconnected and stow. Electrical connector covers are closed. Yeah, yeah, those are yellow ones. Preload Handle, position against - against the umbilical connector. Okay, that's done.
Selector Lever is in the mid position. Installation Strut.
Okay, Installation Strut is unstowed. Capture Latch Release Handle Lock. Okay, the Release Handle is unlocked.
Okay, Ratchet Handle unstowed to the full extension; boost to the first detent. That's good and tight going back to the first detent. Okay. Fold probe, looks like. Yes, it's out.
Ooooh! There it comes. That's just like in the simulator. It comes down by itself. It comes - pushes me out of the way, as a matter of fact. Okay. I'll get it a little better.
Okay, Ratchet Handle pulled to full extension and then ratchet one stroke. Gets it so it gets it off the thing.
Okay, that's one stroke backwards now. Okay, Ratchet Handle and Installation Strut are restowed. Capture Latch Release Handle.
Okay, Capture Latch Release Handle is rotated 180 degrees and it's back in the recess. Okay, let's see if it comes out.
Ooops. Here it comes. And I couldn't see it awhile ago, Let me look - the Probe Strut's in the way. That's why you can't see it until now. Where do we want to go with this thing down over here at the...
Houston, it's a nice clean shear pin release there on top of the probe. It's nice and clean down there. The button is depressed. There's play around the little button on the end of the probe there too.
Okay, Ron. In about 1 minute, we're going to have a site handover. You'll be talking through Hawaii after that takes place.
Okay. What's the docking angle? Blew it, I guess. 1.2 degrees, huh?
Yeah, I think I better ver - verify that, just to make sure. COAS looks great.
Hold a minute, Gene - wait a minute. You got - there we go.
even getting - Can't see if there's any scratching on here now. I out there.
Ron, this is Houston. Was that a - We'd like to confirm the tunnel index angle - that's a positive - a plus 1.2, is that right?
Stand by. I don't believe it yet. I want to check it myself.
Well, Gordo, that's what I read, but I figure it's his privilege.
I was just checking for any scratches on the drogue, but it doesn't look like there is any on there.
Roger.
See.
Okay, Houston. The roll docking index is on a 1.2 - a plus - one point - a plus 1.2.
Roger. Plus 1.2.
And - I took a look up there in the docking latch number 4. The bungee is parallel. Bungee is parallel, but it's not fully extended. You look down in the end of it you know, and it's not fully extended. And the - capture - the docking latch itself or the docking lever is loose on the docking ring. So, it looks like to me that's when I ought to recock and fire it again.
Okay. We copy that, Ron. Stand by.
Ron, can you estimate in inches how far down the bungee piston is?
Yeah, it's down about a half an inch.
Roger.
And, when I take the - and move the handle back a ways and I can take the hook no I did. I took the hook and I pulled it back off the docking ring and then it caught again, so now it won't go back over the docking ring. Maybe I just lifted the hook off the docking ring with my finger.
Roger.
Say, Ron, I would like to caution you again, sticking your finger around or under that hook - there may still be some spring energy stored up there that could release.
Oh, you bet you. Yeah, I know that. No, I was just touching the top of the hook when I pulled it back off the docking ring. I pulled it back onto the docking ring, and it looks like it's back in the cocked position now.
Okay. I think we've got the picture.
Do you want me to open the hatch here, Jack, or do you want to - while they're thinking about that I'll get out of the way and come on and open the hatch.
Can't get up and can't get down. Okay.
We're having a long conversation here about that latch, Ron. Why don't you all just press on down the checklist and leave it as it is while we think about it?
Okay. That's what we're doing here Gordo.
Okay, Gordo, do you want the O2 Heaters 1 and 2, Off, and 3, Auto? That's what you've got.
Yeah, that's fine.
Okay. He's going to open the hatch and IVT. Gordo, let me give you a little more on that docking latch. When I looked at it, of course, my handle was flush against the edge and it was also - essentially - locked in position. But since the bungee was down on the thing I took hold of it, and I felt that the hook itself was loose. Okay, so I took the handle and the handle will come back - would come back once you pressed the little button, you know, to release the handle. The handle would come back to about a 45-degree position just like it normally does when you try to cock the latches. Okay, with the handle back in that 45-degree position, then I grabbed hold of the hook and brought the hook off of the docking ring with my fingers and back to about that 45-degree position again just like it was comparable to the first cocked position. And that's the way it is right now.
Okay, Ron.
Okay, Gordo, I'm running up through the tunnel from America to Challenger.
Roger.
Yeah. Okay.
One piece of tape coming up shortly, provided I can find the tape. Here it is.
Piece of tape coming up.
I'll tell you, Gordo, it's remarkably clean up here. It doesn't look like the snowstorm that I remember coming into last time.
Rog, Geno.
We tried to leave it all tidied up...
up here. Hey, you did a good job, friend.
Hey, that's good. Where is it? Oh, you - straight out there? Let me see; I want to see. I want to take a look at it, too. Hey, there it is; sticking straight out.
Okay, Houston, America has a VHF antenna - looks deployed perfectly.
Roger.
Hey, you guys are upside down in there. The old latch here.
The commander's window has a slight amount of condensation on the - along the lower left edge - that's the left-hand edge, really. It seems to be just there when the Sun warms the window.
Roger, Jack.
Okay, Houston. 74 on 1-3.
Okay.
Geez, what was that? What was that from? cabin repress.. What the hell is that?
Sounds like the cabin repress is working up there.
Holy smoley..
Man oh man, did the heart beat go up on that?
Sorry about that.
Turns out - there's Sun out in the AOT.
Roger, Jack.
Okay. I'm looking out the AOT, and I see a VHF antenna and part of a rendezvous radar antenna in position 1. Position 2 looks right into the radar antenna, and, as I said yesterday, it looks beautiful.
Roger.
Position 3, I can see the other side of America and very, very clean AOT, very clean. Okay, I got a good view of the side of the Service Module, and you can see these little blisters in the side of the covering there quite distinctly. I think people were talking about those before.
Rog.
Yeah, I take that back. That's the side of - that's the side of the Command Module - looking at that has the little blisters on it. Got to get oriented up here.
Got a great view of the hatch through position 6. Watch your eyes there Gene. Look up, rather than into the Sun.
Okay. Step 1 on 1-4.
Okay, Gordy. The LMP OPS is 6100 psi, 6100.
Roger.
And the CDR's OPS is 5900, that's five-nine-zero-zero.
Okay.
Okay. Zip bag coming up.
You won't scare me any more if I come on up here with you, will you?.
I got to go back in there.
Okay.
Yeah. Do you want to stack part of it over there?
No, wait a minute. There's strips of the stuff, you know, I'll just give you a strip of it. Take it over there.
Okay. Here you go. That's nine of them, isn't it?
Yeah, go ahead, Jack. You're in the tunnel. What do you need.
Okay.
Okay.
Checking circuit breakers now, Gordy.
Roger.
both circuit breaker panels were as advertised, Gordy.
Okay.
Am I not looking in the right place?
Let me look. I don't know where one is, right offhand. I'll check here.
Well, just help me with some terms here. I was just looking again at side of - underneath the power bungee.
Okay, Gordy; we're at the top of 1-13 and all switches, valves were in proper configuration.
Okay, you could have asked me and I could have told you that.
We were just trying to give you a plug - Well, if you don't want them - Well, we'll take it back. I shouldn't have said anything to the world's most experienced DLMP. Right?
Rog.
Hey, can you guys open the hatch out there. Take your picture.
Ron, at first glance, it doesn't look like you have one onboard, a picture of the latch. We're still looking though, but I don't think we have one.
Well, it was kind of the conclusion I came to there, when I didn't find it in the systems data - Hey, I got a little bit to tell you about that. Oh, those little ones underneath the power bungee.
Okay, go ahead.
Okay, if you look at the docking latch number 4 up beside of that - Oh, kind of a J-hook looking thing. There is a snowman. In other words, a great big fat thing with a head on top of it. And if you consider the fat thing with the head on it as a snowman, well then, the snowman's head is pointing out a 9 o'clock, on that one. Whereas one that's fully cocked and latched over there, the snowman's head points up at about 11 o'clock. And, okay, there's a lever that comes right out of the bottom of the power bungee, it looks like, and then it comes out of the bottom, then of that lever is another silver slot or silver bar that goes from the lever to the J-hook with the snowman on it. That particular thing that connects the J-hook to the lever coming out of the bottom of the bungee is visible. In other words, it's not sticking back underneath the J-hook. It's visible.
Ron, we've got just a line drawing here and we've still haven't got with you on what's what according to the drawing. Maybe you can hold off until we get a model of the latch, then we can stay with your description.
Oh, okay, Gordy.
I'll give you a call.
Okay.
Yeah, I know it, it's up to you. I want to float up in the tunnel. Do you want to float up and look?
Yeah, the congestion I had all day yesterday is just about gone.
Gordy, you'll be happy to know that putting the LMP's camera together is 500-percent easier in zero gravity.
Roger.
It becomes a two-hand process.
Is that temporary stow?
Hey, Jack, if you get a chance, take a picture back this way.
Okay.
Okay.
Putting the cue cards up now, and the camera, by the way, Gordy, operated for two frames and the Reseau looked clean, lens looks clean and everything's fine with it.
Okay, Jack; sounds good.
First up too. The regular type, huh?
Okay, I can do that.
Okay, Gordo, we're on the top of 1-15, we're ready to go ahead and transfer the power and we'll give you a call.
Okay, Geno.
Okay, the LM Power circuit breaker is In. What the - let me know what you want Okay, going to Off, Reset. Okay, back to Off. And, I got the old Master Alarm again. Yeah? The pressure's been - I don't know what it is.
Okay, Houston; we got a good transfer.
Roger.
Got it again by hitting the panel.
Ron, this is Houston.
Yeah, go ahead, Gord.
Okay, we've got considerable conversation going on here about that docking latch, and it's not at all settled yet. But the primary thing we want to guard against is the possibility that it is malfunctioning and that we get it latched down on the ring and can't unlatch it, and, therefore, have problem with undocking, or possibly even prevent it. So, we'd like you steer clear of that until we come up with a final solution. No experimentation, please. Over.
Okay, I understand. I'll leave them alone. And just one little other bit of information to let you know. The handle itself is not free at this point to come on back down like it's - you know. Like, if it were fully cocked, the handle itself would be free to come back down. It is not free, I did not try to put a whole lot of pressure on it, but it's not free.
Okay. Understand.
Okay, Houston. Glycol Pump 2 is On, it's been on about a minute, and we've got good talkbacks from batteries 1 and 4.
Roger, Jack.
LMP and CDR buses are 262.
Roger.
Okay, Jack, you can go ahead and switch on - onto high taps on 1 and 4.
That's in work.
Okay, 1 and 4 are on high taps.
Roger.
Houston, glycol pressure is 22.
You faded out, Jack. Say again on glycol pressure.
Roger. It's 22.0.
Okay.
Well, you can cut off the decimal.
Okay, stand by 1.
Okay, it's off, Jack.
No, wait a minute, I got to go get it. Which one you on? A? Okay.
Okay, Jack, I'm Simplex Alpha. Okay, try it again. I got the - how me.
Okay, Jack, you're cutting out on everything, and all I'm getting is the end of your transmission there.
Okay, I got counting - 1, 2, 3, 4.
Jack, you read Gene? Okay, you - you were loud and clear after your first two words in every case, just like you were cutting out on VOX.
We got it all...
Got it all that time. You got it all that time there now, do you read me too?
Well, that's interesting. Let me adjust the squelch on this one here.
Okay. Seems to work. I can't hear the squelch on any of them.
Jack, go VHF A Transmitter and Receiver, Off, and B Transmitter, Voice, and leave the Receiver, On.
Okay, Voice, On, and Off on B now.
Okay. TR.
Okay, I'm on B now. Okay, get some level. How's that?.
Okay. You're loud and clear, Ron. How me?
Okay, loud and clear that time.
Okay. And my - my VHF Alpha had to go to 2 on the Squelch, and I'm in 3 on Bravo.
okay?
You're loud and clear, Gene.
Okay but not much.
Okay. How do you read now?
Okay I got it.
Okay, I took it B to 2. So it's the same kind of thing I guess.
Okay for four minutes in voice, is low bit rate check.
Okay, Houston, how do you read Challenger? Counting 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Over.
Challenger, Houston. You're loud and clear, although we have a lot of background noise. Not sure whether that's getting through. Do you know if Ron is still on VOX?
Challenger to give you a call.
Hello, Houston, America. How do you read?
America, this is Houston. Over.
Okay, stand by, and Challenger's going to give you a call on S-band, and VHF checks are both Go on A and B.
Okay. I think our site lost lock on Challenger, we are getting some data. We'll stand by for another check.
Do you acknowledge that? I heard him the first time.
Okay, you ought to be getting in low bit rate.
Okay, Houston, this is Challenger. Counting 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. How do you read?
Challenger, Houston. You're loud and clear, with the background noise.
They don't have a good uplink Gene. I had signal strength. And now I don't have any at all.
Okay, Houston, Challenger gave you a call, but he does not have any uplink signal strength at all.
Okay, and we'd like him to hold this configuration right there, until we get the site straightened out and we understand what the problem is.
2.2.
Okay, understand hold configuration there. He just got about 2.2 on the signal strength.
Okay, Geno.
And tell them I heard their transmission to you. No, a few minutes ago. I was at zero signal strength and I heard their transmission, at least one of them. The first time they acknowledged, that I was going to do it.
Did you shift my hose back?
Hello, Challenger; this is Houston. Do you read me?
Okay, Houston. I read you. You're weak but clear. Signal strength is fluctuating. When you call me, it fluctuated down to about 1.6. Over. And it's 2 now.
Okay, Jack. You're loud and clear. The background noise I've been mentioning, although I guess you haven't heard me mention it until now, is what we expect in Down Voice Backup and Low Bit Rate. How have you read this transmission all the way through? Over.
Did he say "say again?" Gene? Gene, did he say "say again?" I got a little bit - oh he's got three point...
they're not talking to us.
What? Okay, Houston. I've got 3.4 on the signal strength, and try me again.
Okay, Challenger. You're coming in loud and clear. How do you read me?
Okay, Houston. I know you tried to transmit. I could just barely tell that. I could see the signal strength vary down to 3. You were modulating, apparently, but you're not getting through to me.
Okay, Challenger. I'm transmitting simul now in both S-band frequencies, and it sounds to us like for some reason when I transmit, the uplink signal starts to break up. It's just the way you see it. Over.
Okay, Gordy. You're breaking up there. Still modulating, but I cannot read you. Would you - would you tell America what you said?
Yes, Gordy, we - we read you in America loud and clear on that simul.
Okay, Geno.
Is he talking, Gene?
As soon as he starts trying to talk, the signal strength drops off about 0.4. Now, I have had - I heard him loud and clear one time when he called you guys.
America and Challenger, we're going to hand over to a different site and try that here in about 30 seconds.
What else do we have to do, get some of these mags stowed?
We've got to stow the mags. Here, put the PPK where it belongs.
Hello, Challenger; this is Houston through Bermuda. How do you copy?
Challenger, this is Houston. How do you read me?
Do you want to up the camera tow our LCG back there.
America, Houston.
Go ahead.
Go ahead, Gordo.
Okay, Jack. I think he answered us, but he was completely lost in the noise. I could just barely make out some answers, somebody talking. Could he hear us okay?
No. If he did hear you, he didn't answer.
Okay. It was my imagination then.
Challenger, Houston. How do you read?
Hello, Challenger; Houston. How do you read?
3.2 one word I heard America.
Hello, Challenger. This is Houston. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, how do you copy. Over.
America, Houston.
Can you tell Jack, ask him to verify he's on aft Omni?
3.2.
Okay. I'll have him verify he's on aft Omni.
That's affirm. He's verified now.
Okay.
earlier when he was that he had good signal strength he would transmit.
Rog.
But on this last set of checks, we didn't hear anything at your end.
Apparently not.
Okay.
There was one time earlier when he had zero signal strength where he said he could hear you transmitting to us very weak but clear.
Okay.
Hello, Challenger. Hello, Challenger; this is Houston. How do you read?
Okay. You're loud - well, you're about 3 by, Gordy, but very clear.
Okay, Jack. We're getting you about 1 by 1 in the midst of a lot of noise, but we could tell you're sounding much better.
No. I've got 2 now signal strength.
Challenger, this is Houston. Going up to you through Bermuda, and your - you should come down through Goldstone. How do I sound now?
Challenger, Houston. How do you read?
You're 1.8, 1.8. Yep. Never heard him.
Hello, Challenger; Houston. How do you read?
Gordy received me, didn't he? Well, he started to say something; then he dropped off.
Now he's up. Haven't heard him.
America, Houston.
Okay. We're going to go back to Goldstone, both up and down, and we'd like Jack to do step 406 on the checklist; in other words, go to Voice, S-Band Voice to Voice, the Biomed to Right. And we're going to give it a try in the normal configuration. Over.
They want step 406, gentlemen. Biomed, Right; and S-Band Voice to Voice.
That's affirmative.
Okay, he's going there now.
Roger.
Houston, do you read Challenger?
Roger, Challenger. Read you weak but clear. How do you read?
Okay, Houston, You just came in loud and clear. How do you read?
Okay. And that time, you're loud and clear, Jack and sounds real good.
Okay, Gordy. Let me say once again, way back when we first started and Gene was talking to you, I heard one of your answers, weak but clear, with zero signal strength showing here. Now, that might have been through Ron's VOX, I don't know. Since then, you've been able to modulate the signal strength, with occasional weak words. And - and then, when that signal strength was up around 3.2, where it is now, then you came in loud and clear with a broadcast. I answered you, you said about three words, then dropped off completely. And then we - we changed configuration.
Okay, Jack. That correlates with what we've seen here in the way of signal strengths dropping in and out. Stand by, and I'll see where we want to go from here.
Challenger, Houston. We'd like you to do step 7. We'll check out the telemetry High Bit Rate.
Okay; step 7.
And, Challenger; Houston. Making a voice check. How do you copy?
Roger. You're loud and clear. How me?
You're loud and clear.
Challenger, Houston. We're looking at the High Bit Rate for a minute here while we're waiting. Would you check the Cross Tie circuit breakers, panel 16? Verify they're Open.
That's verified. Cross Tie's Bus and Bal Loads, Open.
Roger.
Challenger, Houston. We'd like you to accomplish step number 8.
Roger. Step 8.
Okay, Houston. How do you read the Challenger? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Over.
Challenger, you're loud and clear. How me?
Loud and clear.
Rog.
Challenger, Houston. Go ahead with step 9. Report the ED Bat voltages.
Wilco. Stand by.
Okay, Houston. ED Bats A and B are 37.2.
Roger. Okay. And go ahead with step 10, and then we'll go back and try to find out what's wrong with Down Voice Backup.
Gordo, say again, please.
Go ahead and check the sequence camera, if you haven't already, Jack, and then we'll have some steps for you to check out what was wrong with Down Voice Backup.
All righty. Stand by.
Sequence camera - sequence camera is Go.
Okay.
And I'm ready for your step.
Stand by 1.
Challenger, Houston. We'd like the Ranging switch to Off/Reset, and the Voice switch to Down Voice Backup, then give us a call. Over.
Okay. Off/Reset on Range, and Down Voice Backup on Voice.
That's affirmative.
Okay, Gordy. On Down Voice Backup, how do you read? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Okay, Jack. You're readable. You're. Okay, Challenger, we read your transmission, but you're just about - just about lost in the noise. Give us another count, please.
Okay, Houston; this is the Challenger. You were loud and clear, loud and clear. No different from the transmissions in Voice, and counting 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. How do you read? Over.
Okay, Jack. It got a lot better. You're - you're perfectly readable now. Sounding good.
That sounds good.
Okay, Jack. Would you go to High Bit Rate?
Roger. Challenger's High Bit Rate. How do you read High Bit Rate?
Okay. Still the same. Loud and clear.
Okay. We'd like Biomed, Off now, Jack.
Roger. Going Biomed, Off. Okay, Houston. How do you read the LM? Down Voice Backup; Biomed, Off; PCM, Hi. Over.
Okay, Jack. You're loud and clear.
Okay, Gordy. And that was hot mike, so that's working fine up here. And you're loud and clear, also.
Okay, Jack. Let's try PCM, Lo, now.
Okay. Talking to you Down Voice Backup; Biomed, Off; and PCM, Lo. How do you read? Over.
Okay. Same old, loud and clear.
Okay, Gordy. Certainly is clear up here. You're coming through 5 by at signal strength 3.2, and - all appearances up here, that previous problem was an uplink. But I guess you were not reading me. is that correct?
Well, I was - The answer is yes and no at various times. We think, though, we have a good handle on the problem.
Okay; very good.
Are you ready for us to press on here, Gordy? We're all stowed and - in pretty good shape in the LM.
Okay. We'd like you to check one more switch first before moving on. Check the Updata Link switch to Off.
Okay, That is verified Off.
Roger.
Want you to stand by a minute or two Jack, until we verify a funny-looking parameter here on that uplink switch.
Standing by. What's that? No, they want - they got something looking funny on the uplink - they're I guess on the uplink switch.
Challenger, Houston...
They want to look at it.
That was a bad call. We were reading the data wrong. You're clear to press on with the checklist now on page 1-20.
Okay. We'll press on. Geno, here is your jettison bag. You can get back to Ron.
Okay, S-band PR Off, VHF Off; I can hear you. PM Off.
Roger, Geno.
Okay, Houston. We just transferred to CSM power, and the caution warning light did go off.
Roger.
Gordo, we're about wrapped up here in Challenger. It looks like there's some life in - in the old bird, huh?
Roger.
Okay. We'll give you a call when we - when we get the hatch closed. Ron's doing some housekeeping in the Command Module, and we're going to take it slow getting back in.
Okay, Geno.
Okay, Houston. The drogue is going in.
Roger, Ron. We've got a couple of questions for you about those - about the latch. Good old latch number 4 gave us a problem I guess, huh?
America, Houston.
America, go ahead.
Ron, can you take a look at the latch number 4, and is the hook back away from the ring approximately one inch, as opposed to resting against the ring?
America, Houston, did you copy my question?
We're going back to air-ground one.
Okay, I heard somebody going to air-ground one that time, and...
Roger, Ron. Got a couple of questions on those - that latch number 4 if you can answer it for me.
America, Houston.
America, Houston. We're back with you after some site changeover. How do you read?
Okay; loud and clear. How me, Bob?
Real good, Ron. On that number 4, latch number 4, is the hook backed away from the ring about 1 inch as opposed to resting against the ring? Do you have about an inch clearance on that hook right now?
Well, there's about ½ inch.
Okay. Understand about ½ inch. In what position was the latch handle when the hook was first moved back, Ron? Was it kind of like in a normal stroke-back, or was it just flopping back?
No, when I first looked at it, the latch handle was - see, the hook itself was over the ring when I first looked at it.
Rog. We understand that...
The hook was over the ring, and the - and the latch handle was flush, you know. It looks just like a normal - hooked docking latch, you know.
Rog. Understand.
And, Bob, this is Gene. I can confirm that it did not fold back easily, because I - I checked it yesterday. I didn't check - I checked to see that the hooks were over as well as where the handles would fold back, but I obviously didn't check to see whether that one was seated. But the handle was locked.
Yes, that's right.
Roger. Understand. And the first thing you saw was the depression in the bungee. is that - is that affirm?
Yeah, that's affirm. And the bungee is depressed about 3/8 - 3/8 to a ½ inch you know.
Roger.
You can push the - you can push the hook about an inch away from the ring, but the normal - just a resting position on the thing is about a finger's width or ½ inch from the ring.
Roger. In other words, the loose - The hook is loose so it flops a little bit; you can move it back and forth. Is that affirm?
Yeah. I can move it from about ½ inch to an inch from the edge of the ring - clearing the edge of the docking ring.
Roger. Ron, when you pulled the hook - when you pulled the handle back, did you reach and pull the hook back with it, or did it come back with the handle like a normal pullback then?
No, the - the hook did not come back with the handle. The hook did not come back with the handle. Although, when I - when I pulled the handle back to - you know, which is - which is kind of a normally uncocked position - and then it wouldn't go any further, you know. It wouldn't go an farther. And then the latch itself - or the hook - the J-hook; I'll call it the hook. I moved it off off the docking ring back to this position that was about an inch or ½ inch from the docking ring. And it stays right there now. And I can't push it back up into the docking ring at all. Can't push the hook back up to the docking ring at all.
Okay. We copy that.
Okay, Ron. Our plan here is to leave it like it is. And we're going to think about it tonight, and we'd like you to just keep pressing on. Just leave it alone, okay?
Okay. Sounds good. It'll clear the docking ring; no problem.
Houston, America. While Ron's putting in the probe and getting the hatch back in, I'm going to go ahead and maneuver. How's that sound?
That's real fine, Gene.
15 Central Time in the small briefing room. Spacecraft communicator now is Bob Overmeyer. During this past checkout of the Lunar Module, we've had considerable difficulty in some of the communications configurations in the way the downlinks and uplinks were set up. And some bit of difficulty in sorting out just what the nature of the problem in one of the docking latches is. People will be examining this through the night and during the checkout of the LM tomorrow, or additional work in the LM, perhaps the thing can be sorted out. Apollo 17 presently at 143,562 nautical miles out from Earth, traveling at a velocity of 3,590 feet per second. At 42:28 and standing by, this is Apollo Control.
Bob, are you all going to want Omni or High Gain on this?
Stand by on that.
We're all locked up on the High Gain. We'd just like you to leave it on High Gain. The angles you see in the Flight Plan are in case it breaks lock. That's what you need for - with this attitude.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. The probe is installed. We'll get the hatch in now.
Roger, Ron.
I'm not going to connect the umbilicals unless you really want to look at probe temperature.
Stand by on that, Ron. We concur on that, Ron.
Okay; good.
Okay, Houston. The hatch went in nominally, once the probe installation strut was stowed in the right position.
Roger.
