30, giving them the option to sleep for an additional 30 minutes. Apollo 17 now 167,000 nautical miles from Earth and we're showing velocity with respect to the Moon at 3,293 feet per second, some 66,300 nautical miles from the Moon at this time. This is Apollo Control at 53 hours, 58 minutes.
Madrid Comm Tech, Houston Comm Tech, Net 1.
Madrid Comm Tech on Net 1. I read you loud and clear. How me?
I read you the same. Thank you.
Roger.
Good morning, Apollo 17. It's Houston. Over.
Apollo 17, Houston. Good morning.
Apollo 17, this is Houston. Good morning.
Apollo 17, Houston. Good morning.
45 Ground Elapsed Time, standing by. Here we go.
Jayhawk Fight Song]
Apollo 17, Houston. Good morning. Are you with us this morning?
49, standing by, this is Apollo Control.
Jayhawk Fight Song, University of Kansas. And, eventually we may get these sleepyheads awake. At 56:58 Ground Elapsed Time, Apollo 17 is 60,471 nautical miles out from the Moon, approaching at a velocity of 3,285 and our slant range in nautical miles from the Earth to the spacecraft is 171,985 nautical miles. Standing by at 56:58, this is Apollo Control.
Apollo 17, Houston. Good morning. Are you with us this morning?
Good morning, Apollo 17. It's time to rise and shine. Over.
Apollo 17; oh, Apollo 17; it's morning. Time to get up. Over.
Hello, Apollo 17; do you read? Over.
Hello, 17. Hello, 17. How do you read us this morning?
We're asleep.
That's the understatement of the year.
Never let Evans be on watch.
I think we'll go along with that from here on.
good morning.
That was some party last night, Gordy. Man, that was a humdinger.
Must have been.
17, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay, we're starting out late, as you know; but there's nothing ahead that we can see that's time-critical. So you might try to hurry a little, but don't - don't go to any great lengths to try to catch up with the Flight Plan. We can slip the LM telemetry activation without any problem. Over.
Okay, we got you. Our biggest problem this morning is keeping Ron from going back to sleep.
Rog.
By the way, my sleep report is looks like I had about 7½ hours of pretty good sleep.
And if you believe that, you're really a.
Okay, Houston; 17. I don't know if you're ready for this or not, but we have a few reports for you.
We're ready. Go ahead, Jack.
Okay. On your CDR: PRD, 17028; he claims 7½ hours of good sleep. He had a Seconal before going to bed, and since the last reporting, has had four containers of water.
Roger.
Okay, with respect to food - let's see, we gave you a intermediate report yesterday. Do you want that repeated?
Negative.
Well, I'm not sure I can differentiate what I said yesterday, so I'd just better give it all to you. This is yesterday's complete report.
Okay.
CDR was scrambled eggs, three bacon squares, peaches, pineapple-grapefruit drink, peanut butter, jelly, bread, chocolate bar, orange drink, apricot - that's dried apricot - one frankfurter, a third of a fruitcake, half a beefsteak, butterscotch pudding, orange drink, and tea.
Okay, we got that.
Let me know if I'm too fast for you.
No, we've got it all on tape. Go ahead.
Okay, with respect to food yesterday - LMP: scrambled eggs, four bacon squares, orange-pineapple drink, cocoa, potato soup, two peanut butter, two jelly, two bread, cherry bar, orange-grapefruit drink, beefsteak, orange drink, and tea.
Okay.
Okay, and the PRD is...
Jack, we're just about to switch antennas now. Why don't you wait until we get through it before continuing.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. You back with us?
Okay, Jack. I think we're back with you again.
Okay; got you. LMP: PRD, 24064; 7½ hours very good sleep, 1 hour intermittent. Had a Seconal. I took two aspirins yesterday. And since the last reporting, I've had four containers of water.
Roger.
Okay. Old CMP - the man of the hour, one might say. Scrambled eggs, bacon squares, peaches, cinnamon toast bread, orange juice, cocoa, peanut butter, jelly, bread, cherry bar, citrus beverage, fruitcake, butterscotch pudding, orange drink, turkey and gravy, two frankfurters, and tea. You might say he was a little logey. Okay. CMP: PRD, 15027; 7 and a - let's make that 8 hours of very good sleep. He claims he didn't get to sleep for a while. Seconal, and he's had five containers of water since the last reporting.
Okay.
Jack, if - future reports if it's any easier, we can go to negative reporting. If you're fairly close to the menus, just tell us the differences. Whatever is easiest for you is fine with us.
Okay. Well, now that we're eating well, that may be the best way to do it.
Okay. I have the - your consumables status, if everybody that's interested is listening.
Go ahead, Gordon.
Okay. Your RCS is running right along at 1.3 percent above the Flight Plan line. On your cryos, the O2 tanks 2 and 3 are right on the lines. Tank 1 is still, as before, about 4 percent below - below the line but looking real good. On hydrogen, you're a little above on one tank - on tank 2 - a little bit below on tank 3, but the average is right with the Flight Plan lines. So consumables look good. Over.
Okay. That's good to hear. And, I see that our old SPS oxidizer pressure has dropped some more. I guess the old - the helium is working it's way in there - or out of there.
Okay. That's the way it looks to us. One final thing. Management has informed me that since you've been so late getting to work this morning, we are going to have to dock you all a day's annual leave.
All of us! I can un - I can understand that for the commander, since he's always the commander, but I do not understand why the LMP loses a day - an hour.
Hello, Houston. This is America.
Hello, Geno. Good morning.
Hello, Gordo. Request is that I handle the disciplinary problems up here; how's that?
Okay.
Geno, we'll have FAO work on a good time in the Flight Plan later here to work in a captain's mast.
Okay; that'll be great. Hey, Gordy, for the record; I swallowed three of those - those gas pills yesterday.
Okay.
13 and standing by, this is Apollo Control.
Houston, 17.
Houston, 17.
Okay, Ron, we see the 93s; and you're clear to torque them.
Okay, we'll torque them at 19:20.
And, Houston, I've started the dumping.
Roger.
And, Houston, we're going to dump A on the water dump - Waste Water Dump.
Okay.
Houston, we're starting a - O2 purge.
Okay, Jack.
Hey, Gordo, we'll get everything cleaned up in the Flight Plan, including eating, up to 59 hours where we start checking the Delta-P and pressurizing the CSM for LM entry.
Okay. We see you doing all that now, and we're just checking things off as you call them. Sounds good.
Okay. And then when we'll clean all that up - regards to what the time will be, we'll pick up the 59-hour mark then.
Okay.
Okay. Waste water dump's terminated.
Roger.
Fuel cell purge complete.
Roger on the fuel cell purge.
Hello, Houston; 17.
Go ahead.
Roger. While we're getting organized to eat a little bit here, I'll give you your morning weather report, if you want it.
Okay, go ahead.
Okay, Gordy. That little storm - fairly big storm - that was off the coast of northwest Africa yesterday, has moved inland and presumably is giving those people up there some weather. Might even be getting some snow up in the Atlas Mountains. It's still fairly well organized and inland a few hundred miles - or the edge of it is inland a few hundred miles. The people at the Cape of Good Hope ought to be seeing some clouds that are forerunners of a large circulation system that's south-southwest of them - that, although large, seems to have most of its heavy clouds to the southeast of the center. And they may not get any major weather out of this one. But they'll probably have cloudiness for a few days. The storm that was over Buenos Aires yesterday has apparently moved out to sea and is now west - or east-southeast of that area. Otherwise the - except for those three storm areas, the South Atlantic looks relatively calm. The zero phase point is now off the - east coast of South America, and it looks fairly dull and gray. And I suspect no extensive choppiness in that area.
Jack, take a breather there. We got an antenna switch coming.
Okay Jack, we're back with you and listening.
Okay, Gordy, I can't see you right now. I think that was about the extent of it. We'll get some food and, while I'm eating, I'll look at it and see if there are any more details.
Okay.
17, Houston. I have the morning news here, whenever you'd like to hear it - if you would.
Go ahead, Gordo. We'd like to hear it now.
Okay. First, a look at the weather in the local area. It's going to be mostly cloudy through Sunday, with a chance of showers here today - but much warmer. I'll have to wait until we get through the Omni switch here, and then I'll be back with you.
Okay, 17, continuing on with the weather. It should be - get up to the upper 60s here in Houston today. It was foggy when I came to work, but understand the Sun is out now and the fog is burned off. On the international/national scene: There's another reported snag in the negotiations between Dr. Henry Kissinger and North Vietnam's Le Duc Tho. The two have discussed the peace terms since Monday; but, so far, little news concerning the talks has been released by either side. They meet again today. A judge in the Pentagon Papers trial of Daniel Ellsburg has declared a mistrial. Judge Matt Burn has asked that a new jury be selected. Both sides in the cases must now go back to the beginning and prepare their arguments again. Former President Harry Truman is still hospitalized with a serious heart condition. Although listed in critical condition, the 88-year-old former Chief Executive has shown some improvement, according to his daughter, Margaret Truman Daniel. President Nixon has completed selection of his new cabinet by announcing that he will keep Richard Kleindienst as Attorney General. There will be a number of major changes, though, in upper levels of the Justice and Interior Departments. Life Magazine will be no more as of the end of December. The pictorial magazine lost over 30 million dollars during the past 4 years. No doubt some of the final pictures to appear in the famous 36-year-old publication will be those of the Apollo 17 mission. An airliner crashed at Midway Airport in Chicago, Friday. Of the 61 persons aboard, only 18 survived the crash. In other national and international highlights: Unemployment figures show a drop to the lowest level in 2 years; 5.6 billion dollars has been released by the Federal Government in the first revenue-sharing payment to state and local governments. And the NATO foreign ministers have urged the Soviet Union to cut down troop strength and allow freer movement of people over the east-west borders. In local and regional news: New hijack control devices have been installed at Houston Intercontinental Airport. The new metal detectors are being installed in many airports around the United States. New inspection procedures will also begin in January of all hand luggage carried aboard airliners. And on the sports page: Al Conover is not going to return to Wake Forest as rumored. The Rice coach has met with the University President Dr. Norman Hackerman to discuss a firm 5-year contract agreement. Professional football highlights today's sports; the 'Over-the-Hill-Gang' from Washington with Billy Kilmer and Larry Brown will take on the Dallas Cowboys at Texas Stadium in Irving. The Cowboys will, no doubt, go with Craig Morton at quarterback. Dallas can ensure itself of a 'wild card' slot in the playoffs with the Redskins, if they win. For Dallas, it's a revenge game. The Skins have won nine straight. Johnny Bench, the Cincinnati Reds all-everything catcher, has been hospitalized for tests. X-rays showed a spot on a lung. Doctors feel sure the lesion is benign, though. The University of Houston basketball team takes on Xavier tonight. The Cougars, with four wins and one loss, will face a Xavier team that likes to play slowdown basketball. The Houston Rockets beat the Portland, Oregon, Trailblazers last night in Hofheinz, 114 to 108. The Big Eight Athletic Conference has joined the Big Ten in the Ohio Athletic Conference in breaking relations with the U.S. Olympic Committee. Back in Houston again: Bill Peterson, the Oiler coach, says he's not planning on new assistant coaches. He says, "The Oilers need more togetherness with their coaches, not new ones." And a final item: the Des Moines, Iowa, post office was emptying a mail pouch. One package fell on the floor, broke open, and spilled all over the place. The contents were Postal Service instructions on how to wrap and mail packages to ensure safe transit and delivery.
Very good news report, Gordo...
Yeah. That crash in Chicago, can you tell me a little bit more about it?
I read real briefly in the paper, just before I came in, that it did crash in a populated area. It was a very brief report. I don't think the final details have been published yet. I'll check to see if we've got anymore in.
Okay. And I guess you know where - at least my wishes go for that Cowboy game, don't you?
I'm not sure that I do.
I'll just let you make an assumption.
Okay. We've got an antenna switch coming here.
17, Houston. I have a little more on the plane crash, if you'd like to hear it.
Yes, sir, Gordy. Go ahead.
Okay. It was a United Airlines jet, 61 people aboard. And it crashed into a south-side Chicago neighborhood while trying to land at Midway. Most of the 55 passengers - There were - well, I'm not sure I'm getting all the numbers right here. But it said here that most of the 55 passengers were found dead in the debris of a - and it was a Boeing 737 about a half a mile away from the airport. One of the victims was representative George Collins, a Democrat from Illinois - who was returning from Washington to organize a children's Christmas party. The weather, at the time, was a 500-foot ceiling and 1-mile visibility. And sleet and snow were falling at the time. There were no reports that any occupants of the houses were injured or killed. I turn back to the back of the paper, here. A United spokesman said one of the six crewmembers, a stewardess, was among 16 persons admitted to Holy Cross Hospital. She said there were two infants among the passengers. Jet apparently missed runway 13 at Midway on - and cruised over the neighborhood of bungalow homes at heights of 500 to 1000 feet and then with his nose up and tail down tore into the dwellings. Witnesses said the plane scraped the roofs of two bungalows and sheared through six houses, setting them aflame. The fuselage of the airliner split, but the nose remained intact. A tail section was sticking out of one house. The plummetting airliner sheared through utility lines and a 2-square-mile area was blacked out. Telephone service was knocked out. A power company spokesman said 5,000 homes were affected.
Okeydoke.
And a little news about - about your trajectory. Since the midcourse 2, you've been looking real good. You've - you're homing in on 53½-mile perilune. We're discussing midcourse 4, which - if we do it all - is going to be very small. It's looking like about a foot and a half per second right now. And I guess if we do it, it'll only be because it will save us Delta-V at LOI. Over.
Okay, I was just looking. Those dumps really knocked us for a loop, didn't they?
Yes, it - it's driving your PTC out.
Yeah, we're at almost 40 degrees now.
Gordy, has the temperature been pretty cold down there?
Here, in Houston, it warmed up considerably last night - yesterday afternoon and last night. And this morning, it's probably in the 60s somewhere.
Makes it...
13 standing by, this is Apollo Control.
17, Houston. I have some words about the troubles we had during the LM comm checks yesterday, if you have a free moment to listen.
Go ahead, Gordy. We're listening.
Okay. We think we've got a pretty good handle on what the problem was - and that was, that the - the LM communications gear, we think, was jumping on the voice subcarrier, rather than the main carrier. And the symptoms we had point to that. What would happen is, when I would try to transmit, then it - it would lose lock as soon as I put modulation on the voice subcarrier. During the checks today, we're going to try to verify that the system is indeed working okay. And we can do it without any changes in the onboard procedures by - purely by procedures that will be handled at the ground site and here at Mission Control. And so that's what we're planning to do. We really don't - The problem that happened has been seen before, evidently; and it's not that unusual. We really don't think there's anything wrong with the onboard equipment. Over.
Sounds good, Gordy. We'll just take her slow and easy when I get over there today and make sure we understand it.
Okay, Jack. And there's no - there's real no voice check scheduled, and we don't think any are required. We can tell what we need to do without any voice checks from here.
Gordy, you're breaking up. Talk to you as soon as we get another Omni.
Okay.
While I got you, I took three pictures of the Earth I thought I might have moved one of them. And we're on frame 145.
Did you copy, Gordy?
That's affirmative, Jack. I copy. You may not be reading me through the Omni switch.
Okay, that was mag November November.
Roger.
Houston, 17. Do you want us to go into a battery B charge?
Let me check, Jack. That's affirmative. Go ahead
Okay.
Battery B is being Charged. And, Gordy, different than the last time - the charger amps is moving up very slowly. Started out at about 0.2 and now is 1 amp - little more - it's still going up. Before, it jumped right up to about 2 amps. is that expected?
Oh we'll check on that. Stand by.
Gordy, the LM/CM Delta-P is 0.6. You still want to take the Command Module up?
Geno, that'll be fine. You will not have to jack up the Command Module pressure.
Okay, I think I'll maneuver to attitude then.
Okay; sounds good.
Jack, the way the amps are going to look when you put the charger on is a function of the state of the charge of the battery. And what you described is about what we'd expect, considering where the battery should be.
Okay; that's what I figured. It's up about one and three-quarter amps now.
Roger.
And it appears to be stable.
Okay.
Gordy, I'm in the process of - I'm in the process of putting biomed sensors on.
Roger.
Hey, Houston; 17. Thanks to a little South Carolina boy we had up here last time, we've got some grits up here. And they're really not too bad. A little butter on them and - A little bit dry. Of course, you could add a little more water to them and they'd be a little better, but not bad at all.
I can't believe I'm hearing that from a real Yankee
Of course, Kansas is not exactly Yankee.
Let me tell you, that does not apply to the little old farm boy from Chicago.
Rog.
As you students of American history may recall, Kansas caused a lot of the problem we had with those two people.
Roger.
And grits is causing the rest of it.
17, Houston. We see that you're making a maneuver uncoupled in pitch, and we'd rather you make it coupled to keep FDO happy. Over.
Okay.
Yeah, that was my fault, Gordo. I screwed up here.
Houston, Emergency Cab Repress is Off.
Roger.
Okay, Repress Package valve's Off.
Say again, Ron.
Hello, Gordy. You with us?
Yes. How do you read?
We're reading you loud and clear. The Emergency Cabin Pressure Select is Off. And we're about ready to open the Equalisation valve.
Okay. And we're ready for the High Gain.
Okay.
Gordy, that's the High Gain. How do you like it?
Looking good.
Okay, Gordy. I was reading 0.2 on the Delta-P and the hatch is cracked.
Roger, Gene.
Hey, Houston; 17. How do you read the LMP's biomed?
Let me check.
Jack, the EKG looks great. Your ZPN looks like a sensor may be loose.
And we'll be handing over here in...
loose sensors.
about 30 seconds.
Okay. We're in the process of getting the probe and drogue out. I pushed on the sensors real hard again, and see if that helps it.
Okay. We'll take a look.
That helped it. Don't worry about it, until we call you again.
on that one, Gordy. You've always been one of those smooth talkers.
There's all - yeah - they're down there somewhere.
Okay. The probe is out. And we'll try the drogue now.
Okay, Ron.
Okay, the - the drogue is out, and we're going up to take another look at Challenger.
Okay, Gene.
Somebody left their lights on in here.
Rog.
It's just like a refrigerator.
Rog.
Docking index is unchanged.
Okay. It's a plus 1.2. Right?
That's affirm.
Ron, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay, Ron. When you get a - a moment, when it's convenient, we'd like you to go up to the latch number 4 there, the one that's been giving us trouble, and we'd like you - well, we think it's just half cocked and we'd like you to stroke it. We think it will probably cock on one - with one more stroke. We'd like you to stroke it at least twice more to verify that it is fully cocked. And as you do stroke the handle, we'd like you to notice approximately what point in the - in the throw that the resistance increases. I think that summarizes what we want you to do, if you keep us advised as you go along.
Okay.
We - we're going to leave it cocked then from here on until redocking after rendezvous. Well - we don't want to - we don't want you to fire it.
Sure. Understand.
Houston, we're transferring to LM Power.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. I'm going to give them LM Power. I'm going to go Reset and Off.
And we have LM power.
Roger.
Gordo, this is Geno.
Go ahead, Gene.
Okay. While my compatriots are carrying out their respective tasks, I'm going to go off the air here for a - a few short minutes. And give you a call when I get back.
Okay.
And I'm in step 3, Gordy, on 2-2.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. America here. I'm up by docking latch number 4 now.
Okay, Ron.
Okay, the handle itself is free swinging at - to a point about 1 inch beyond the backside of the J-hook.
Roger.
And, I'll go ahead and try to cock it now.
Gordy, ED Bats are 37.2 and 37.2, and the Bus Voltages are 26.2 and I'll bring on the high taps.
Okay, Jack. Sounds good.
And, Houston, as we all suspected, it has one cock on it, or it had one cock. Now it's fully cocked. And the handle itself is free swinging. The plunger has depressed, oh, almost three-quarters of an inch from the top. And it is no longer parallel with the surface.
Roger, Ron.
Okay. When you look back in the side of it there, that little J-hook with the snowman in it, the snowman's head points - as you look directly at the side of it, it points - the snowman's head is at 8 o'clock and the connecting link from the one that connects to the one that goes into the plunger to - to the little fat J-bar there, is parallel with that slot, so that the point of the J sticks out. So it is, indeed, fully cocked.
Okay, Ron. Sounds good and that's where we'd like to leave it.
Okay. Will do.
Okay. Step 5, 2-3.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. Step 5 complete. Glycol pressure is 21. It's down about a psi from yesterday.
Okay, Jack. Copy.
And, Houston, is magazine II a good one to use for a - some opportunity interior photos?
Let me check, Ron.
That's affirm; II sounds good.
Hope so. Looks like that's the only one I have.
Do you - do you recall when you did the heat flow on HH, if you used all of HH up on that experiment?
Don't get it out to look, but I just wondered if you remembered.
That's affirm. It - No, it ran out. It didn't - I got the complete cooldown part of the ex - of the experiment on HH and then switched to High. And I got about 2 minutes of High before the film ran out again. High power on the - on the...
Okay, Ron. Thank you.
After the main part of the experiment was complete.
Roger.
And, Jack, we're copying LM data now.
Okay, Gordy. Beautiful. I was just going to say step 6 is complete.
Houston, 17.
Go ahead.
Roger. I just was thinking while I was waiting here that the cleanliness of these two spacecraft is certainly a tribute to the - all the people at Grumman and Downey and at the Cape, who worked so hard to put them that way.
Okay. We'll make sure they hear about it.
Challenger, Houston. We're - we've looked at the LM data and it looks perfect, no problems at all. What we're doing right now, though, is - is - the checkout on the carrier and subcarrier lockups on the LM comm. So far, we've had no trouble with it, but we haven't quite completed the routine we wanted to try. Over.
Okay. I understand, Gordy. No - no hurry here.
Okay, Jack. We've completed our investigation of the comm, there. It all looked good. You can press on page 2-4.
Roger.
Say, Gordy, I see I neglected to pull the Bal Load circuit breaker when I went to - after going to high taps. You want me to go back and show you that again?
Stand by.
That's the Bal Loads breaker on 16, so the buses were tied together.
Roger. Understand.
Jack, there's no need to go back. Just keep on going.
Okay. Sorry about that.
No problem.
America, Houston. We're all ready for the E-MOD dump, if it's convenient to you.
Houston, this is America. I guess that's for me, isn't it?
That's right, for Captain America.
Okay. We'll get her here.
Okay, Verb 74 Enter.
Okay, we're getting it.
Okay.
And, Houston, we have 50 percent remaining on magazine India India.
Roger.
And they're all taken at 6 frames a second.
Okay.
Okay, America, we've got the dump.
Okay. Understand; you have the dump.
36, standing by; this is Apollo Control.
Hello, Gordo. This is Geno. I'm - back on the line.
Okay. Welcome back.
Yeah, I was just testing out survival techniques in space.
Roger.
Did you survive?
Well, so far.
And we've got the LM back on CSM power.
Okay.
Gordo, it's called education of necessity.
Roger.
Okay. I guess the LM looked pretty good to you, huh?
Yes, sir. It looked perfect. And we also went through the little communications main carrier, subcarrier lockup check, and the - and the comm system worked perfectly, so there's no problems at all to report.
Okay, fine. We'll start in - with the - Jack donning the PGA, and then I'll follow him.
Okay.
Gordy, how'd that ZPN turn out?
Let me get another check, here.
Okay, Jack. It looks fairly good right now. Don't bother changing anything.
Well, I'm just going to be in a position to work on it in a little while and if the occasion arises, I could.
Okay, we'll keep that in mind, although it looks reasonable at the moment. It has shown some - at some times, it's gone to - from edge to edge on their scale but it's come back in right now. I'll find out later if they want to do anything.
Okay, the - the electrolyte pads may be still expanding a little bit so I'm going off the air briefly to start getting into the suit. And I'll talk to you in a little while.
Okay.
Hello, Gordo.
Hello.
Okay. We're up to frame count 151 on magazine November November. They've been pictures of the - primarily of the CSM out the LM windows by the CMP.
Okay.
He's been up there fooling around for a while. We may have to check it out and see what he did.
America, Houston.
Go ahead, Gordo.
All that dropout there was because Ascension had a problem. We're now over on Madrid, and you're sounding good.
Okay.
Okay, Gordo. Jack is in his suit, unzipped at this time. I'm going off the air, and Ron'll come on and keep you informed as to how we're going.
Okay. Fine.
Houston. How do you read the LMP?
Loud and clear, Jack.
Okay. I'm in my suit, presently unzipped. Didn't seem to be any problem at all.
Okay.
And, Gordy, I think I found a problem with the biomed sensors. And when I come out of the suit, I can fix it. I put a little of that bacterial cream on the sensor places last night as a preventive mechanism, and I think it's just a little greasy to hold the sensor.
Okay.
Okay. Gene's got his suit on and he's going across to the LM now.
Roger, Ron.
Okay. This is CMP. I'll go off the line here, for a little bit, until I get my suit on again.
Okay, Ron.
And Jack's still on the line up there at the LM now.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. We're both zipped now, and it went quite easily.
Okay, Jack. Sounds super.
21 Ground Elapsed Time. Position and velocity on the spacecraft: now 51,982 nautical miles from the Moon; velocity, 3,288 feet per second; distance from Earth, 179,437 nautical miles. Crew completing their checkout of the Lunar Module, getting partially suited in their Pressure Garment Assemblies or space suits, if you will, for the installation of the probe and drogue, and closeout of the tunnel into the Lunar Module. At 61:22, up and live on the air-ground circuit, this is Apollo Control.
CMP. I've finally got my suit on now.
Go ahead.
America, Houston. Did you call?
I was just saying - the CMP. Got my suit on now. And I had a little trouble with the donning liners getting stuck - stuck in the zipper; but I figured out how to get them out of the way now.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. Gene has his suit pretty well on now.
Okay, Ron.
We reviewed the data on the E-MOD. Everything looks normal. One thing you might do is - no big thing, but you might zero Noun 26. It's still loaded, left over from the EMP you used in the P23 yesterday.
Okay. Thank you much.
Gordy, this is the LMP. How do you read?
Loud and clear, Jack.
Say, when I was switching batteries, I noticed switching from low to high taps that there were some reverse-current indications. Sure that's nothing to be concerned about; you probably expected those, right?
That's affirmative, Jack. That's normal.
Right.
51, standing by; this is Apollo Control.
America, Houston. We'd like to terminate the charge on battery B.
Okay; stand by 1.
Okay, we'll get that in a minute, Gordo.
Okay.
Okay, Gordo, the charge should be terminated on Bat B.
Okay.
And 7 Alpha's still - 7 Alpha's still 0.6.
Roger.
Okay, Gordy, I - I'm looking around, but I can't figure out what that Master Alarm is. I didn't see any O2 High Flow and I didn't see any lights, and we did get it down in the LEB.
Okay, Gene.
And there it is again.
Roger.
And again.
Roger.
Okay, I saw SPS Pressure blink on that one.
Roger.
Yeah, Gordy, she's triggering continually on SPS Pressure.
Yeah. I can't reset it, and a minute later she's coming up with a blink on SPS Pressure.
Okay, Gene. We think it's the - well, we - we're sure that it's the oxidizer pressure is right on the trip limit. We're almost certain it's due to helium absorption.
Yeah, we're reading 155 right now.
Roger.
Okay, Gordy. We got the SPS Pressure light on steady now.
Roger.
America, Houston. If you give us Accept, we'll give you a new state vector. Nothing much wrong with the one you've got, but we're just going to tweak it up.
Okay, Gordy, you've got it.
And one other question. Do you have the LM closed up now? We're seeing some heater currents that are a little higher indicating maybe the light's still on. And we're just trying to understand where the LM is at the present time.
Okay, I just closed the hatch, just about the time you started talking there.
Okay, we'll take a look at the currents now.
America, it's your computer, and we did the Verb 66.
Okay.
Say, Gordo, what's the trend in thinking on that SPS light - to leave it lit or to bump the pressure up?
Well, I - Ed Mitchell must be at work. We were just talking about that subject. I'll call you when they come up with a final decision.
Okay. And Ron has put the - has closed the LM hatch. He's put the drogue in. He's put the probe in, and he's putting the CSM hatch in as a one-man exercise - suited. So he's doing the whole thing, and he's still in his suit. Our suits are stowed.
Okay, Gene. We got one question here, that - just - just waiting for a convenient time to ask, and that was - wondered if, with reference to the wakeup problems we had this morning, if you'd clarify just exactly why Ron didn't hear our crew-alert Master Alarm. Do you know exactly why?
Well, it's not the Seconal. As much as I hate to admit it, the Power/Audio Tone was Off in my headset.
Okay. We kind of suspected that - that one.
So - Okay; that lets you rest a little bit easier. And just to prevent something like that from happening again - or if it should happen again - what we'll do, we'll hook up the tone booster, which we didn't have hooked up last night.
Okay. We concur. Sounds good.
Yeah. I woke up and I saw that light there and I thought, "Gee-whiz, I just got it in time." Until I tried to push - push out that caution and warning Master Alarm. And burned my end of my finger.
I was also in a sleep restraint and upside down with a zipper in the back. And I had a little problem getting my hands out to start with, also.
Rog.
Hey, Houston, Cabin Repress is back to Both now - I mean Emergency Cabin Repress.
Roger, Ron.
Gordo, if you don't have any objections, we'd like to go ahead and secure the High Gain, and go on to PTC while Ron's doffing his PGA.
Let me check and see if we have any.
Sounds good to us. Go ahead and, per Flight Plan, spin it up.
Okay.
And I didn't want to mislead you. I mean, you can get ready to spin it up. We'll give you the Go to spin up.
Okay.
Okay, Gordy. You want to leave the High Gain 'til you call?
Stand by.
Okay. Jack, this is a good attitude to go to Omni Bravo, and you can go ahead and secure the High Gain.
Okay.
America, Houston. The rates look good; you're Go for spinup.
Okay; great, Gordo; we're Go for spinup. We've - we've got a show in here that very few men have ever seen, and that's a CMP trying to get out of his suit by himself.
Wish I was there to watch.
It really is a story to behold.
Needless to say, we're both very impressed.
I can tell.
America, Houston. Use B/D roll for spinup.
Okay.
Okay, Houston. This is the LMP on biomed. How do you read?
Okay, Jack. Let's take a point check here.
America, D-2 Roll is not on. You need the Delta Roll jet.
Yeah, I'm still working on it, Gordo. I was just deciding whether to spin minus or plus; but I guess we ought to spin minus, as per the Flight Plan.
Okay.
We're on our way.
Okay. Okay, the LMP's EKG and ZPN look good. And on the SPS light, we recommend not doing anything with the system. We want you to go to Acknowledge so the - get the light out of your eyes, and then just fly there in Acknowledge on the Caution and Warning.
Okay, Gordy. We're in Acknowledge, and - I presume, probably after LOI, we'll be able to go back to Normal, right?
That's affirmative.
Is that an abnormal amount of helium ingestion, or do you think that's about right?
It's - it's absorption, and that's normal.
Hello, Houston. Do you read?
Loud and clear.
Okay, now that we got another look at you, Gordy, it looks like Houston might be right on the fringes of either being clear or clearer. The entire Gulf is pretty nice. Florida looks pretty clear, and Mexico looks pretty clear. There's a big air mass of cloud that looks like it picks up somewhere around the coast at Houston, heads on up north, and then covers most of the Midwest and the East, from about the middle of Mississippi, Alabama, and Georgia on north. It's clear enough now to even see the coral reefs down off of Florida. And it looks like west Texas is probably also pretty clear, at least in a run from east to west. We can see Baja, and on up the coast of California up north.
Okay, sounds like the whole crew is turning into weathermen.
It's one of the better views we've had of the States, I think, even though we're quite a ways out.
Roger. Looks like your subso - subspacecraft point is just about Peru right now.
Yeah, we're - looks like we're looking straight down on the center of South America, pretty close to what you're saying.
Gordy, you want to bring us up to date briefly on how you plan on handling this time update again?
Okay. I'll do that. Let me - but let me practice before I start here. Just a minute.
Okay. I'm primarily interested in those parts of the Flight Plan which we're going to eliminate.
Okay. Just one second.
Geno, I'll read you the PAO release; they summed up pretty well, and I'll just use their words here. The time has been made up in two increments. The first one of 1 hour and 45 minutes in the Flight Plan. The crew activities were jumped ahead by 1 hour, and they essentially began doing those things that were called for 1 hour later in the Flight Plan. They will again jump ahead an hour and 40 minutes, and that will occur at 65 hours. By that time they will have completed all those activities required up through 67 hours and 40 minutes in the Flight Plan. Or, in other words, they'll have completed all the activities required to get them into lunar orbit, 2 hours and 40 minutes early, and in order to make the clocks then agree with where the crew will be in the Flight Plan, we'll jump the clocks ahead 2 hours and 40 minutes. This clock update, which can be likened to going on Daylight Saving Time, only 2 hours and 40 minutes worth of change instead of 1 hour of change as we do on Daylight Savings Time, will occur at 65 hours when the crew will have completed all of those Flight Plan activities up through 67 hours and 40 minutes. This simply involves setting our clock to 65 hours in the Control Center and aboard the spacecraft to 65 hours, moving them ahead to 67 hours and 40 minutes. Then, barring any further changes in the mission time line, from that point on, the elapsed time clocks, which are used as a cue to Flight Plan activities, should agree with the Flight Plan and events that, in the Flight Plan are called out for a certain time will happen at that time on the elapsed time clocks in Mission Control and aboard the spacecraft. This is a convenience factor.
You're lucky; we're going to lose an Omni.
Okay. I'll hold off there for the rest.
Gordy, never mind. I think I got the gist of it.
Did you give up, Gordy?
Okay. What we're really going to do is - really is simple. At 65 hours, we're going to do the update of 2 hours and 40 minutes. And the procedures are shown in the Flight Plan at 67:35. There just happens - happens to be really no - no activities we have to reschedule in the intervening time. So, after the update is complete, we'll be right on the Flight Plan, both time-wise and activity-wise. Over.
Okay. We're looking at it. Going to have to squeeze my shave in somewhere else, I guess.
Hey, Gene; Houston.
Go ahead.
Hey, you got to break - you can cast the tying vote. Which was the best description: the water bag or the clock one?
Oh yeah. Now I remember. You got a little - give a little credit on this last one, I guess, to - to Public Affairs, because I don't think Gordo could have thought that one up all by himself.
Very diplomatic.
Considering I - I was trying to do - to do Charlie's technique step by step, I guess I got to give him little bit more credit from the gymnastic point of view.
That sounded like one of Gordy's aircraft schedules.
Amen.
they were moving another Saturn V out on the pad.
Jack, we lost all of that due to the antenna switch. Say again.
Jack, we missed your last transmission...
Gordo, you listening?
due to the antenna switch.
You say you got it, or you're getting it?
No, we missed it.
Okay. I said you can look right down at the Cape area - that's the Cape that we know - in Florida, and - little disheartening because the last time I was up here looking back from this angle, they were moving another Saturn V for another Moon trip out on the pad already. But I guess they're working pretty feverishly out there on B.
Gordy, this is Jack. I think Gene was right. You got some - probably scattered cloud weather, but not very far away from you there's a pretty heavy mass of clouds. It may be the forerunner of that dry cold front you were talking about yesterday, which I can see stretching over into Sonora. But where it hits the stateside, it's got quite a mass of clouds associated with it. It looks like they're moving in your direction.
Okay, Jack, thanks for the warning.
Clear behind it, in Arizona and New Mexico and maybe southern Colorado, it looks like there may be another front stretching, or maybe it hits northern Arizona and Utah and up through northern Colorado, and on in to Canada, trending northeast.
You're calling it right on, Jack. I'm looking at the surface chart, and that's about what we see.
Looks like a low might be developing on that one - a wave up in northern Colorado and - although the clouds are a little hard to read.
Roger.
Our sub - or our zero phase point About 20 degrees west of Bolivia, our sub - our zero - zero phase point, and it is quite a bit brighter than yesterday and looks as if, and more general, as if maybe the seas have picked up in that region a little bit.
Roger.
One of the more unusual features is developed - as I see - has developed in the southeast Pacific just north of the Ross Sea and that is a very striking mushroom pattern on a very large scale. It has north/south clouds streaming - streamers from the Ross Sea. And when it gets up about the latitude of Tierra del Fuego, but quite a bit west of that land, it branches out to the east and west in a large mushroom pattern. And it looks like the top of that mushroom may be a curved cold front that's pushing its way up into the southeast Pacific. It currently - the eastern edge of that front is probably 10 degrees longitude from Tierra del Fuego, and it looks like that land is - in southern Chile is picking up high clouds, probably associated with that front's movement.
Roger.
I'll get some shots of that next time around. That's a spectacular pattern. You almost get the feeling that the cold airmass moving out of Antarctica streams for a while north/south. And then it picks - The cloud patterns change and as it starts to migrate, the winds start to change from east to west, Maybe that's where it encounters the jetstream.
Rog.
America, Houston. I have a couple of miscellaneous items here.
Okay; go ahead.
Okay. We'd like you to disable B2 and D2 just for a drill here.
Oh, thank you, Gordo.
Also, the SHe tank looks exactly nominal, as far as the rise rate goes, to us.
Can't argue with that.
And to summarize your film budget situation, have three magazines: KK, LL, and MM are budgeted for the scheduled photos such that they have only five, 19, and one, respectively, frames left over after you've done all the scheduled pictures. And November November, we think, has just - has just nine frames remaining now. The two nonscheduled magazines are OO and PP; 160 frames each. Those are the ones provided for optional use. We have 44 additional frames scheduled out of November November, scheduled during lunar orbit. There's only nine left in it now, so we'd like to save at least 60 frames out of either Oscar Oscar or Papa Papa, the two optional magazines, to cover the scheduled frames. Guess what we're saying is there's no problem. We've still got plenty of film, but you will have to use some of your optional mags for scheduled pictures. Sixty frames is what we want to save.
Okay; mighty fine, Gordo. Plan on Oscar Oscar for that magazine.
Okay.
23 Ground Elapsed Time. The space digitals display here in the Control Center still showing Earth to spacecraft distance and velocity. Distance 180,309 nautical miles, velocity relative to Earth 2,593 feet per second. A few moments ago the Lunar Module pilot Jack Schmitt who is a professional geologist, put on his hat as an amateur meteorologist and described some of the global weather systems visible from their vantage point out beyond 180,000 miles from Earth. Still up live and standing by at 63:24 Ground Elapsed Time, this is Apollo Control.
Gordy; this is Jack.
Go ahead, Jack.
I - Cal Tech will never forgive me; I'm a little hesitant on my elementry optics. But I just put Ron's polarizing filter in front of the monocular, looking at the Earth and rotate 90 degrees, and from max to min in terms of brightness, there's a remarkable change. And I suspect that means that the Earth is polarizing light enough to see it. The main thing that happens is that the oceans get considerably darker when I rotate the filter towards the dark position anyway. The continents don't seem to show any obvious change, but the oceans and the zero phase point darken - oh, I would guess by a factor of two in brightness. Maybe that's an extreme, but I think it's that.
Rog. I was just trying to think of a reason. Is it uniform change over all ocean areas, or is it more of a change in some areas than others?
Well, I'd say that the subsolar point shows the greatest change, but you can still - the zero phase point shows the greatest change. But all the oceans get darker.
Very interesting. We are just about to switch Omnis.
Houston, 17.
Go ahead.
Gordy, I figure you're getting an optics briefing ready for me, right?
I haven't had anybody volunteer one. Strictly some layman theories going around, but nothing official.
Okay.
America, Houston. Just got started on the Cowboy-Redskin game, about 5 minutes into it. The Cowboys are ahead 7 to nothing. They scored the first time they got the ball.
Gordy, you started talking before we had an Omni. Try it again.
Okay. The Cowboy-Redskin game just got started. It's now 7 to nothing, Cowboys. They scored the first time they got their hands on the ball.
Okay. I think we got most of that. It happened again, though.
Did you say it was 7 to nothing, Cowboys?
That's what I said. They scored the first time they got the ball. It's - the game's just about 5 minutes old.
Outstanding. I thought this was Saturday. Isn't - isn't today Saturday?
It is, but the college is all through, so the pros are playing on Saturday now.
Beautiful. Seven to nothing, huh? Go get 'em, Cowboys.
But, he would say the same thing for Washington, I'm sure.
Nosiree. Go get 'em, Cowboys.
Houston, 17.
Go ahead, Ron.
Okay, Gordo, my apologies on the CMP's in-suit drinking bag. There was, in fact, water in it. However, somehow, when we put the suit on, the water bag had gotten turned sideways, I guess, is the way to explain it. It got turned sideways such that the suction tube was crimped sideways. And, as a result, there's no way that you could get any water to go through the tube.
Okay. You're talking about the problem we had there just before launch, right?
That's affirmative - prelaunch.
Okay, and for your information, the PTC looks good. It ought to hold.
Okay. Mighty fine. I lost my scissors. If there's anything you can do to help me find them, it'd be appreciated.
Okay.
Okay.
Got a game plan update for you here. It's now 14-nothing, Dallas; still in the first quarter.
God, you're sure a bearer of good news, Gordy. That's great.
Gordy, I just - this is Jack. I just tried the red filter on the front of the monocular and about the only major thing I noticed was that the cloud patterns over the landmasses seemed to be enhanced. The contrast between cloud and land, particularly green land is enhanced. Otherwise, all it does is make the red - the Earth look a little red.
Roger, Jack.
15 with Flight Director Neil Hutchinson. And at 63:56, standing by; this is Apollo Control.
Hey, Gordo; this is Gene.
Hey, Houston; this is 17.
Roger, Geno. I think we've got you now. Go ahead.
Okay, Geno. I think we got you...
17.
Now. Go ahead.
Okay. I just happened to be throwing a few switches, and I see our helium tank temperature on quad A is about 95 or so. And the others are quite low. Is that because of our attitude there during - the LM checkout?
That's affirmative. That's the reason.
Okay. I also see the tank that - package temperature a little higher on that quad too. But, being close to a hundred it seemed a little unusual. You're - you're happy, right?
That's affirm. No problem. We've been watching it, and it seems to be coming down now.
Okay. Fine. Thank you.
Houston, you want the H2 Heaters to Auto and the Fan 3 to Off, now?
Stand by, Jack.
That's affirmative, Jack. Go ahead.
Okay. That's done.
It's now 21 to nothing, Cowboys. Second quarter.
Super Bowl, here they come. Watch out now.
Should remind you that the Commander in Chief is a Redskin fan.
I read about that. That's why the Cowboys need as much help as they can get.
Gordy, in the continuing saga of looking at the Earth through rose-colored glasses, I tried a blue-colored glass, and it - as you might expect, completely masks out the continent. The land areas are just not visible through the blue. Otherwise, the ocean and clouds - or the contrasting ocean and clouds remains about the same.
Roger, Jack.
And, Gordy, I tried putting all the filters we had together to check the Sun for sunspots, but just not quite enough light attenuation to do that.
Okay. For a while I thought you were a human weather satellite. Now I think you're a human Earth resources satellite.
Well, about all I can say is I'm a satellite I guess.
Gordy, it looks as if the distribution of water and ice in the ri - Ross Sea has changed in the last day or two. I didn't - don't remember looking at it yesterday specifically, but it seems to be different today than it was the first day.
Roger.
Houston, 17.
Go ahead, Jack.
Yeah, about this icepack in the Ross Sea. The - as I remember a couple days ago, there were two clear areas, triangular in shape and quite elongate, that were projecting out into the sea from the innermost part of the bay, or of the - from the continent. Today those are not apparent, at least the first look I made. And it looks like there's an elongate, more irregular clear area that is roughly parallel to the Antarctic coastline within the sea itself. We'll check that a little more closely and see if that's right.
Okay. Seems like kind of a quick change for something like ice, doesn't it?
Yeah, and that's what bothers me. That's why I wonder if I'm not being fooled by cloud patterns or something.
I'm looking at a satellite picture here, which I guess is around 12 hours old though. But over to the east of Australia, maybe about a continent width east of Australia, there's a really striking long frontal system - striking because it's so long and so straight, sort of west-northwest, trending west-northwest and east-southeast trending. Can you see that?
Gordo, are you there?
Yes, sir, right here.
Okay. Now Jack and I may be talking about two different frontal systems or patterns, but the one I think you might be referring to is the one I referred to yesterday as a ruffled parrot's beak. Actually two of them tied together, one starting up probably southeast of Australia and - and then heading down with a long arcing frontal system to another clockwise rotational parrot's - parrot's cone, I should say, down around - near the tip of South America, between it and Antarctica. There's one strong tributary front heading up to the north-northwest from the western side of this big, arcing, frontal mass. And I think that's probably what you're referring to. I'm not sure. I can't quite see Australia coming up over the - over the horizon yet.
Okay. I - my picture cuts off right about the - oh, two-thirds of the way south in Australia, that latitude. So most likely we're talking about the same thing, but I can't verify the southern part of it.
There is some tremendous - on the western side of that curve front is a tremendous clockwise rotational airmass. It must cover hundreds of square miles. The one down near - near the continent of Antarctica, down there, near the tip of South America, seemed to be squashed slightly as if there is possibly some - some squashing or effect coming off - off the South Pole area near Antarctica. I think, if I turn around and look at it the way Jack was looking at it, it's a cap of a mushroom. Only instead of simply curving in underneath the cap, it has clockwise rotations on both sides as it curves under.
Roger.
26 Ground Elapsed Time. The space digitals, meanwhile, has come back to Moon reference numbers. Our distance now from the Moon is 45,955 nautical miles. Velocity, 3,300 feet per second. And the Earth is 183,365 nautical miles behind Apollo 17. Shift change press conference at 4:15 with Flight Director Neil Hutchinson. Chuck Lewis taking over now, with his team of flight controllers. And at 64:27, and continuing to stay up live on the Air-to-Ground, this Apollo Control.
Gordy, I just took two pictures of the Earth at the present time, and those are, right now the camera is on frame 153.
Okay; 153.
Gordy, where did you say your ATS satellite picture left off to the west?
Okay. To the west, it goes clear on over to - to Africa. But to the south, it cuts off about 30 south, or not quite all of Australia.
Okay. Yeah, that mushroom pattern we've been talking about, on either edge - either end of the cap - and the mushroom points north - is a major cyclone circulation system. And also taking - moving, in one case - or trending, in one case, to the northwest and the other to the northeast, there are linear cloud patterns. Gives it a very symmetrical and a striking appearance. I hope it shows on those pictures.
Okay. It doesn't show on the one I got. Maybe a later version will have that one. Because it cuts - it's cut off on this one.
Hey, Gordo. This is Geno.
Go ahead.
To put this update in simple terms - at 65, I guess on our clock, you'll update it to about 67:40, right?
That's affirmative.
Does that mean we have to eat 2 hours and 40 minutes earlier?
Oh, you got me there. I - You haven't been eating - you haven't eaten since breakfast. is that right?
Oh, yes, sir. We just finished. We'll take another go at it, but I feel I've spending my life here eating.
Yeah. Well, we'll leave it up to you on this special case here.
Okay, I think we'll take - a - a jab at supper here later in the day as per the Flight Plan.
All right.
Gordy - the whole suiting operation, I was really very pleased with. Jack and I both got in our suits very easily, and one by one we went into the LM, and that's where we zipped each other up. And we really had little or no trouble. We took our time. We got all configured in terms of changing our pockets around and whatever else we needed to do. And, actually, I think it's much easier to get suited than it is to get unsuited, personally.
Okay. Sounds good.
Ron stayed suited and did the entire tunnel work. And then went - did it by himself - and then totally doffed his suit and stowed it by himself, also, to sort of extend that little exercise.
Roger.
America, Houston. The halftime score is 28 to 3, Cowboys.
Keep talking, Gordo.
Okay, I'll keep talking. The - I've learned that when you get to the ALFMED and pull it out there, you'll see some tape around the emulsion shields. Those are three rectangular areas in front of your eyes and to either side that contain the photographic emulsion. This tape is around the edges of each of those three areas to help seal out light leaks. You haven't seen it before. Leave the tape on there. Don't pull it off. Over.
Okay.
Gordy, I just took a series of pictures of the Earth with the 35-millimeter using the polarizing filter in the two positions. And the frame count is now 39. I took six pictures. And with the filter, on the first of each pair, in the Down position. The second's in the Up position. And I changed the f-stop from - the first set at f/4, the second set at f/2, and the third set at f/8.
Okay; we got all that, Jack.
And, Gordy, you might ask one of the experts around there in - is the lightmeter in the 35-millimeter integrating over the interior spot, or over the hairline spot? The larger one.
Okay, I'll ask.
It acts as if it's the interior one, but.
Okay.
Jack. The answer to your question is the center spot is weighted for 60 percent of the reading and the rest of it for 40 percent. Over.
Okay. That - that makes sense. That would explain why the needle moved as I moved it across the series of spots.
Roger.
Gordo, we're - we're ready any time you are for that update. And after we get the TFM and everything squared away, we'll go into ALFMED.
Roger. Stand by on that, Geno; and we'll be with you in a minute.
Hello, Robert. How are you today?
Real fine, Gene. You're sounding great.
Doing great out here.
Geno, we're ready for the clock update. We'd like P00 and Accept. And we've got two loads to put in, so it will take a couple of minutes here.
Okay, you got it?
Thank you, Ron.
17, Houston. I've got an update on your flyby maneuver PAD due to this clock update. Would you like to copy it?
Stand by just 1 second.
Okay, Houston. Go ahead with the flyby PAD.
Okay, stand by 1 on that - on our end. We're done with the - we're done with the upload. The computer is yours, and we need a read-out on the TFM.
Okay, that's in work.
Okay, we've got the read-out.
17, Houston. The data looks good, and you're Go to copy it, and recommend you copy it into the Flight Plan Supplement. And that's on page 1-43 of the supplement.
Okay, Houston. We have it.
And, 17, we got that Flyby PAD now. If you're still ready, we're ready.
Okay. Is this a full PAD or just a change to the other one?
It's just a change, Jack. It's a change to Noun 83, the GETI, and a change to the bottom line, the GET of.05g. Just two changes.
Okay, go ahead.
Jack, if you just add 2 hours and 40 minutes to each one of them, that's it. The GETI is 081:54:43.49. The GET of.05g, 156:04:03. Jack, I guess I read 81. I was looking at the old PAD. It's 83 - 083 - on the GETI.
You're too fast for me. I was just going to chew you out.
Sorry about that, Jack. I got it around the room.
083 - 083:54:43.49; 156:04:03.
Roger.
Okay, Bob. We got all of our clocks set onboard.
Roger. Understand.
What was the exact amount of that update time?
Two hours, 40 minutes; 2 plus 40.
Okay, 2 plus 40, exactly. Thank you.
Okay, Bob. We're going to work up an appetite with the ALFMED today.
Roger.
Hey, Bob. May be a little premature - but I don't think so - but I think there was some good thinking into that update, looking at the Flight Plan up until now and where we go from here. I don't think we - we overlooked a thing.
Roger. Like I said the other night, we gave Tommy a gold star on that one.
Except I think he and Rita got in - in cahoots.
A little soon for supper, huh?
Yeah. We just finished lunch, and it's about time to eat again.
That's known as the simulator step-ahead.
Can you give us our distance from the Moon - from the Earth?
Roger. Stand by on that.
Are we about 5,000 miles closer now?
Don't you wish.
Well, isn't that what - isn't that the way these step-aheads work?
Normally, yes. But this one didn't work that way. Jack, you're at 183,000 miles. It's really amazing how time flies when you're interested in your work, isn't it?
Jack, Houston. Did you read your - my last call with the distance?
