00 hours or about 1 hour from now.
03 pm Central Standard Time. There is a one and a half hour pad following EVA-2 and EVA-3. This is identified in the Flight Plan as MCC conference and amounts to one and a half hours that can be used to make up lost time after the second EVA and the third EVA. We would expect to make up the lost hour after the first EVA; however, if we again are running somewhat late after the second - after the second EVA rather and if we are running somewhat late after the second EVA we still have the hour and a half pad after the third EVA and would of course expect to be back on the nominal Flight Plan in time for an on-time lift-off from the lunar surface. But, again, based on the one-hour late beginning of the sleep time and our plans to give the crew a full eight hours of sleep, we would expect the EVA-2 to begin one hour late; at 140 hours, 10 minutes or about 5:03 pm Central Standard Time. We'll continue to leave the communication circuit, PAO release line up live until it appears Cernan and Schmitt have begun their sleep period - have actually gone to sleep. We'll be reacquiring the Command Module in about 21 minutes. That vehicle now on its 21st revolution around the Moon. And Ron Evans now about four hours into his scheduled eight-hour sleep period. At 128 hours, 2 minutes; this is Apollo Control, Houston.
Hello, America; this is Houston. Good morning, sir.
Okay. Sounds good. That's what we'll do then.
Hello there, America. How's breakfast this morning?
Sounds good, I think.
Houston, America. I can give you the old CMP's medical log, if you want to do it.
Ron, if you'd like, I could give you a summary of the EVA-1. I'm just sort of editing the report put out by the back room on that.
Oh, you bet.
Ron, for your information, the ALSEP seems to be working pretty well. The central station and all the experiments with the exception of one are working normally. The one that's giving them trouble is the LEAM, and the data on the LEAM doesn't seem to want to sync up properly. They're thinking that one over and maybe have something for them to try to get that to - to work right. Over.
Oh. Okay. Mighty fine.
America, Houston. I have a couple of Flight Plan updates to give you. We suggest you take them down before you start the P52, at your convenience. Just so we don't interrupt your preparation for the zodiacal light.
Affirmative. At bottom of the same column, at 134:54, delete "Mapping Camera, Retract." And also a couple of lines later, delete "Mapping Camera/Laser Altimeter Cover, Closed."
Okay. We deleted the retraction of the Mapping Camera and also deleted covering the - closing the Mapping Camera/laser altimeter.
Okay. We'll just verify that all VHF is Off for sounder operations. VHF, A and B, Off. Receive, Off. And Receive Only, Off. Beacon, Off. And Ranging, Off.
Ranging is Off. Beacon has been Off. Receive Only is On. Okay.
Ron, we'd like High Gain to Auto.
High Gain to Auto. You have it.
[Garble] at 133:01.
America, Houston. Give us Accept, and we give you a vector.
Okay. You have Accept.
America, Houston. It's your computer now.
Okay. I'm going to enable jets Charlie 3 and Dog 3. Disable Bravo 3 and Alpha 3.
Well, Gordo. Looks like I'll lose you right in the middle of this zodiacal light sequencer.
Ron, you have about 30 seconds now until T-start.
Ron, it's about time - coming up on time to start the 90-second exposure.
Coming up on time to close the shutter now.
Okay, Gordo. Thank you much.
Hey, and we started that one after - for the record, started it at 29:09 for the 90-second one. And then - I mean at 28:09, started at 28:09 for the 90-second one. And then we set the clock and started the rest of them on time. So that the 60-one - 60-second one started right at 5 minutes. The next one will be at 8 minutes for the 60-seconder, 10 minutes for 40-second, and [garble] on the 20-second.
Okay. Switch 11:30, we get a 20-second one; 13:00 - Okay, 11:30, we get 20 second; 13:00, we get a 10-[garble].
[Garble] 50.
[Whistling]
Okay, here we go at 48, I guess it is. Laser Altimeter, On. [Garble] we got a barber pole.
Okay, Mapping Camera, On. [Garble] Motion, barber pole plus 4. There's a barber pole. [Garble] could have had that a little sooner. Oh, we got the time [garble] craters.
Warm.
Well, we'll come across Gagarin and Agassiz [sic] now. You can see the - it looks like a rille going back through - towards the south through Agassiz - cutting on across into a little crater to the south of Agassiz. You know, something that looks funny about that, even though it looks like a mare material, it looks like Agassiz is - slopes with a, maybe 10- or 15-degree slope from the west to the east, with a mare-type floor, at least a darker color - darker albedo floor. There's a lot of swirls in the floor. You - you can't see any topographic expression with those swirls at all. It almost looks like some of the - the light streaks, though, do come from - well, by gosh, they are - they're mixed up from ejecta probably from Bright Baby [?]. And Bright Baby is really right up to the - you can see the ejecta pattern on it, heading generally in a northeasterly direction.
Okay, coming across...
And out on the - on the sides of the wall, also, there's another fresh impact just south of ... I guess it's more west really.
Ron, here's some words on what we've been seeing in the sounder and the optical recorder when you get a free moment.
I kind of hope our telemetry is wrong. [Long pause.]
Microphone set now?
How'd you like to have the Pan Camera Power, On, here?
Okay. Mode is to Standby; Pan Camera Power is coming On.
...the hills down in there. Oh, okay. Pan Camera is Off.
Okay. Let's see, Battery Vent Valve is still on Vent, and we're not tied together. Bat Relay Bus Bat A is Out. Okay; 32 volts. Go to Bat Charger Bat A. About 2½ - 2 - 2¼ amps.
Okay; let's - You want to get that Lunar Sounder stuff, now? Sounder's Standby; Recorder is On. Radar is On. Recorder is Off. Mode went to VHF.
And all the VH - all the VH switch - VHF/AM switches are verified, Off.
Okay, the Sun's getting a little bit higher now. And as I look at the landing site and the albedo - differences in the color in there - the color in the Maraldi Gamma is the same as in the landing site itself. And, also, it looks like the type of material that we say is essentially covering the whole area - goes on out to and includes the annulus of Serenitatis.
No, I really haven't looked that much, Gordo. See, my optics are always pointing up in the air; so I can't use the sextant. The binocs - I'm having a heck of a time holding them still enough to - to concentrate on anything very small.
Okay.
Okay. The Mapping Camera is Off right now. Eight, 30 seconds. Okay, Mapping Camera is Standby. Image Motion is Off.
Wait until sunset on the next one.
Okay, V is Off. Now, I'm gonna close the IR Cover, barber pole, gray; UV Cover, barber pole and gray. Okay, turn the old SM/AC Power, Off.
Now.
You have Auto.
Outstanding.
[Laughter] I don't think it does either.
[Laughter] Outstanding.
Okay. Data System is Off, 58, 59 - oops.
Mark it. Okay, went to Operate.
America, Houston. About 3 minutes to LOS. Spacecraft looks good and the sounder's filling the Moon with RF energy, just the way it's supposed to. Over.
Hello, America. Houston. Over.
Hello, Houston. This is America; loud and clear.
Houston, America. Magazine Lima Lima will be starting with frame 54.
Okay. We copy that, Ron. The sounder still looks good, clicking right away. And the Mapping Camera funny I mentioned earlier - we haven't nailed down exactly what it is. Most likely, we think it's just an instrumentation erroneous indication. And so, we're going to continue with the normal schedule of activities on the Mapping Camera, except, of course, for the deploy and retraction.
Uh-huh. Okay. Well, hey, that - let's hope that's what it is then.
Rog.
I'd like to change that instruct to frame 55 instead of 54. I just took a picture of the crater on the - well, I guess southwest of Crisium.
Okay, Ron...
[Garble] different. It's got a light-color - light-colored dike or something through the central peak in the bottom of the small crater. The crater's about - oh, 30 to 50 kilometers, I guess, in diameter.
Roger. [Pause.]
The small crater west of Condorcet.
Okay.
You know, the Crater Peirce has got that same dark halo around its crater, and it extends out - again, you can see it real well out to about a half a crater diameter. You don't see any of the light-colored ejecta on top of it though, like you do on Picard.
Okay.
Boy, that Scarp sure looks like a flow boundary to me.
Rog. On the landing site Scarp?
Yeah. [Camera actuation.] I don't know how you get it to go up the North Massif, but it sure looks like it runs that way - just from the shadows and everything. [Camera actuation.]
Hey, Gordo, does this go all the way out to Bessel? Does it cross the annulus ridge there? [Pause.]
It doesn't go all the way to Bessel. It stops short of Bessel. About halfway across Serenity from the Taurus-Littrow to Bessel.
Oh, okay. Forgot to look where it stopped.
Okay. I ended up on frame 92.
Okay. We copy that. Frame 92.
Okay. Ron, High Gain to Auto when you get a chance.
Okay. There's our 20 seconds or so.
54 Ground Elapsed Time. We have now shifted over to air/ground 1 for the first wake-up call to the crew of Challenger at the landing site, Taurus-Littrow. We have dropped the Command Service Module circuit air/ground 2. Live and listening on the Lunar Module circuit at 136:54, this is Apollo Control.
Ron, Houston here. We're coming up on some TEI-38 PAD, and some flight - and a solar corona PAD, and some Flight Plan update any time you're ready?
Okay. At 137:33, the solar corona photo PAD is T-start: 137:33:48. Over.
Okay, Ron. At 139:21, where it says, "UV Cover, Open," move that down to 139:23. Make the following note. "Delay opening 2 minutes to check operating current with cover closed." We'll be checking that and giving you a cue on that.
Okay. The next one is at 141:50.
Rog. Okay, Ron. The next two are just a couple of info notes for you. I don't know where you want to write this one, but FAO would like to remind you that you don't have any margin on mag Lima Lima anymore; you used up all your margin on that mag. Everything else is needed for planned operation.
And, the last one just...
Rog. I just drove in, and it's kind of a sleety rain. It feels like it might snow at any moment, although it's really not that cold. The ceiling is probably down about 6 - 700 feet. It is really rotten out there.
See if I can get my solar - solar corona squared away here.
Okay. Solar corona is mag QQ, and we're on frame 69.
And, Houston; America. Let's see. You're going to send me over the hill in high bit rate this time for sure, are you? As usual [chuckle].
And, Houston; America. Just so I won't get confused there, I put two protect frames on the start of this.
Ron, we're coming up on 5 minutes to LOS and just want to update you. We went around the room, and the spacecraft is looking great. We just have one reminder and that's at the end of the solar corona period, please use only one protect frame - one protect frame per the Flight Plan or per the checklist. And the other thing is - the Lunar Sounder - the little check you did at the beginning of this pass - the recorder is pulling film as normal. The glitch we saw was a telemetry grit - glitch and the Lunar Sounder's looking great.
Hey, outstanding! That's good to hear. Sounds like we're getting kind of low on VHBW film though is what you're saying, huh?
And we'll see you at 138:15 when you'll be just about eating. So give us a call if you want anything. We'll be listening.
I want to take a red and a blue picture of the landing site sometime.
Okay, Ron. There are 18 spares on X-ray X-ray that you could use.
Oh, okay. Good.
Yes, let's get [garble].
33:48. Okay. Here we go.
33:48. Doesn't sound like the thing's working unless I talk right into it. Good thing it's not on the [garble]. Test 1, 2, 3...
How's that? 1, 2, 3, 4. Okay. That looks like that ought to work. 33:48, we start the clock. 07:48. That dear old clock.
Okay. Bit Rate is High. Checked that, yes. And tape was going. Okay. Let's see now.
04:30, CMC's in Free. [Garble] start drifting. Okay. Oh, the old biemed's starting to itch. Took it off here after a bit and see what it's...
Okay. 04:30, we go to Free; 05:45, take a 10-second one; and at 06, we take a 4-second one and change at 06. Change, then take - At 06:10, we take a 1-second one; 06:20, take one-half. Skip one-fourth, skip 1/15. [Humming] I can sing.
I'll be darned; there's Regulus. Getting another one right there - out there. Planets, huh? I better get back to work. Okay. I'll bet that's Saturn. No. Can't be Saturn. Something larger or something.
03:22. The old CMC MODE switch. There it is. Go to Free at 04:30. Hold trigger down. Okay, I got a 10. Then we start at 06 with a 4-second. Then at 06:10 is a 1-second. Okay. Coming up on 04:30. Look at that. You get a - No, let's see, we want [garble] still 5 minutes early. At 05:45, you get the first one. Still get the [garble]. Find the Jobberdoo. There it is. Go to Free in 5 minutes.
Okay. CMC, Free, [garble]. Okay. [garble] 05:45, we want a 10-second one. Okay. 40, 2, 43, 44...
45. At 55, we turn her Off - 5. Okay. At 06, we want a 4-second. 58, 59...
Mark it. 2, 3, 4. Okay. 06:10, 1. 06:10, we need a 1...
1. One half at 06:20...
Mark. Skipping one.
Okay. It's 30. Okay. Skip one.
[Garble] the Moon? There it is. [Garble] at 7. That's 10 seconds early. Okay. The old sunrise came at 7. May have been a little bit early on that one. Yes, that's true. Light's on [garble]. I won't be surprised at sunset next time.
Okay. PCM Bit Rate, Low, next 7 minutes.
Hi, again. Fuel cell purge and the waste water dump here. Okay. Prime Heaters. Heaters - didn't have that On. [Garble] fuel cell purge is all it is. Okay. Oh, 2 - 2 minutes. Okay, 1, 50...
Mark. 2, 3.
Okay. Waste water is going. Okay. [Garble] dumped. Let's see, time to get the O2 up. Yes.
Okay. Just about 1 minute to - Okay. Let's see. Fuel cell purge. H2, but it works all right. Okay. Seems to be working okay. Little bit higher. I got the old waste water going. Now if I can hook up that Buss, get rid of that one.
Good one. Urine bag; here it comes. The old urine bag.
Okay. Dump. If I were in real g, those bubbles wouldn't go together. One big bubble; I don't know why. Bubbles everything we've got.
Bit Rate to High at 49. [Garble].
Forty percent.
Okay. Going to High Bit Rate.
Thirty percent, I guess. And look at the particles. I'll bet that'll screw up the lunar sounder. It is really snowing out there. [Humming] Holy mackerel, we've already passed Aitken. I wanted to take a look at it. There sure is some kind of a flow around there. You can see the flow marks - flow scarps up around the edges and in the southeast corner of - I mean, southwest corner, you can also see it on the south - I mean, the northwest corner. Up by the cloverleaf, itself, you can see where the flow - the material has flown up over the edge of the - crater wall. Started up the edge of the crater wall almost like that Scarp looks like around the land site. That's what it looks like to me. And let's see. How we doing on the waste water? [Garble] percent, okay. [Garble] the purge.
Gimbal lock. Son-of-a-gun!
Dad blast it. Oh, the old waste water dump really torques you off in Free.
Okay. [Garble] happen anymore. Everything's under control. [Garble] control [garble]. Matter of fact.
Oh, [garble]. Oh, [garble]. It wasn't [garble]. Yes. Where to? Circuit breaker.
[Humming]
Houston, America.
Okay. Stand by on that, Ron.
[Laughter] I got it prior to going to Auto. I forgot to go to Auto after the solar corona thing.
Roger, Ron. We copy those times.
[Laughter] Yeah, might have. I'm going to have some peanut butter now, if you guys don't care.
Okay. Looks like we'll bracket it, there: f/11, 1/125, one frame on each filter; and f/11 at 1/250, one frame on each filter; and without a filter, one - f/11 at 1/1000; and polarizing F/11 at 1/500.
Oh, okay.
Lost the freaking camera. [Garble.]
Oh, okay. You have Accept.
Okay, Ron, anytime you want to reach up and go Auto on the High Gain - your - your convenience.
Mark it. And the polarizer all the way to the left. Stand by.
Mark it. That's the polarizer all the way, counterclockwise.
Mark it. It's all the way to counterclockwise. Stand by.
Mark it. And that's all the way clockwise.
Roger, Ron.
Ron, you should not see a tape motion light at LOS here, be - or - flag, because we've got the dump done and rewound ahead of time. They're rewinding it right now.
How's the crew of Challenger? Are they getting about ready to go out again?
Roger. We understand.
Mark it. It's Off.
We concur with that, Ron.
Okay, there's the IR. Barber pole. And a gray.
Okay, Ron. You can UV Cover, Open, anytime.
Off, Open, barber pole. And it's gray.
H2 Tank 2 Fans are Off.
Ron, we're a few minutes from LOS. And you're looking real good.
Okay.
