[Humming] [Coughing] [Humming] [Whistling] [Coughing]
Hey, finally got a gray. Okay. Image Motion is On.
Mapping Camera, On, - 40 - 41 at 3-minute - [garble] it run for 5 hours, anyhow. So, Mapping Camera, On. Barber pole, plus 3. There's one right there. [Coughing] [Laughing]
Okay. I guess window 3 is the best one after all. You see it coming up.
In this case, all the swirls seem to be running from west to east, or east to west, as the case may be. They seem to be essentially lined up in that way, like they had blown across and maybe gone around - a low mound or something like that. Concentrating on the cloverleaf - and I'll call that cloverleaf - in the northeastern corner down there, the biggest apparent thing is there, it's quite obvious, that you have lava scarp flowing up and over the - in front of the slump material that has been slumped down inside the crater, at least some of the original base fill. So the lava flow's definitely after that, and it looks like in one area - in what I'll call the south domical structures down there, there's a graben or a flow graben where it has flown - Well, I can't tell if it is in or out of. I am just losing sight of it, now. I'll have to check that out next time around. But I can't tell if it is flowing in or out, but at least it's a breach. There has been a lava flow, either into or out of the south domical feature.
There are several, you know, there are subdued craters of some kind, completely subdued or maybe still in that type craters in the north - right south of what we call Crater A. Even there, with the shadow of - Sun angle of, oh, must be no more than 10 degrees, or something like that, or maybe a little bit more. But, you can't see down through that shadow. The western rim is very hard. You lose their shadow down there, and you can't see through the shadow at all.
They look like a rough - well, relatively smooth - turtleback-type of texture on the thing from a high altitude then, when you get down clo - get down low, they were, of course very rough-type of a terrain. But it looks smooth from a high altitude. There is Chaplygin - Chaplygin - with the Star of Chaplygin. The Star of Chaplygin, of course, is a very bright crater on the northeast rim of Chaplygin. You know, something that is very interesting to me is the fact that several craters of the - oh, 30-kilometer size - yes, about the 30-kilometer, about the size of Crater A in Aitken. And they're all relatively fresh-type craters, and they don't have any - no real apparent eJecta blanket, except the interior slopes are smooth. They have fairly sharp corners at the top of the rims. And near the bottom they have a flat floor of some kind, and some of the floors have, you know, it is a definite sharp contact - sharp-angle change from the floor to the wall. It is hard for me to visualize how you could have something sloping down the side of a crater and proceed out in a - in a horizontal floor.
And then in other craters of about that size, and also that age regime, you'd almost - think that they were from mare-type floor, because the - the color of the material in the floor is essentially the same as the surrounding terrain.
[Garble] Crater Panner - Pannokek - Pannekoek, or something like that, next to Dellinger has a turtleback-small turtleback - 30-kilometer crater inside of it. And then on west of that, there's a recent type crater - I say recent again, because it has a smooth, sloping interior rim - and - but again with no ejecta blanket. And also, the northwestern slope of that particular crater, you can see - it has to be a flow slide, ss the type of material has gone down into it. The [garble] comes strictly from the rim, all the way down to the crater floor.
Roosa [?] has all different colors of - material on the thing. Light material down in the walls itself and from the - about the upper one-eighth or something like that, you can see - it almost looks greenish from here, at this particular Sun angle. That's a greenish-type layer, all the way around the top and presumably there's a great big monstrous block of some type. And you can see that greenish-type material - there's a slump - slump fault on the southern edge of Roosa [?], and you can see that greenish - a hint of that greenish-type material at the top of that slump mark also.
Sure funny - the way those things fall off back down there and - although in the case of Roosa [?] it's quite apparent. You can see herringbone, hummocky-type material, or ejecta blanket, all the way around it. It covers up all the way across Bečvář and every place else. You can see it all over the place. But it sure seems to be a heck of a lot of the material falling back in the middle, somehow. They usually start out as a small - smaller craters and just keep caving in, or something. There has got to be some big blocks down there. There you can see the crater King. On across there - and coming across the Arabia now. Looking out across the horizon you can see that it's away. Yes, it's Just a wide spot where Creek - where King is, I think, - especially to the north of King and to the south of King. It's a little bit higher than it is to the west. There's a little bit of a plateau - even a crater diameter from King off to the northeast. You can see Labachevsky clear up on the horizon now. And there's some sort of a - a greenish, - again, in this sunlight to me it looks kind of a greenish - a greenish tint to it anyhow. I don't have my sunglasses on either, by the way. The [garble] flow is all - There's a fresh crater - about a crater diameter south of King. That's maybe 20 kilometers in diameter. It's obviously an impact-type crater. But again, you have the dark-greenish layering around the top of the crater. And maybe it extends for about one-eighth of the crater depth. And then you can see some hint of the green - greenish or darker-type material down at the bottom of the crater floor.
I think you would have to be quite a bit lower than I am, right now, in order to really pick up - from among all these craters here. This thing here, I guess you, could see a typ - topographic rise over Saenger.
And the albedo's - a light - dark - I guess what I'm trying to say is, they are almost ray-type of expression. I don't see any topographic expressions; especially the one that goes down - down in the crater and also to the south as the one between Chang Heng and Labachevsky. Rooster Tail [?] is a very bright subcrater. The ejecta blanket - it goes all over the place, scattering rays eight to l0 - eight to l0 crater diameters from it. And...
...it as well as the - some of the more Eratosthenian craters around Saenger. Looks to me like you can still have a little bit of a hint - at least of the layering, or a broken-up different-colored material at the top of all these craters.
Roger. We got you. See any lava marks on the crater rims, there?
Okay.
[Garble]. Okay, Power is going On.
How about the freshness of the wall and ejecta materials, and the brightness of the rim deposits on Aitken while we have a minute here.
Pan Camera Power is going Off.
You know something - the observation that I think is pretty significant is the fact that most of the 30-kilometer craters on the back side of the Moon seem to be fairly fresh. And any of them that are fresh - by fresh I mean you don't have any real definite ray pattern to them, but you've got a real smooth - not smooth but streaked straight - slope, 45-degree angle going down into the crater and the crater wall. And then you get down to the bottom of the crater, and you got a flat floor down there or sometimes there is a domical type of a floor. And the domical material down there doesn't resemble anything like the stuff that's slumped down the side.
No, just now coming up on Crisium. I just now see it out of window 5. Just off the southern edge. Let me try window 3; I think it might be better.
Okay, I'm looking at the eastern edge of Crisium now. As you come across there, it looks there might be - a little bit darker - You know, I keep seeing browns all the time up here instead of grays - gray tones. Maybe that's just the way I interpret them. They are - to me kind of a brownish tint to them, and it's a darker brown than the - the stuff to the - to the south of the ridge system there.
Well, this ridge system is running east and west down here. The color boundary isn't nearly as apparent in Crisium as it is in Serenitatis. Except that right under me right now there's kind of a subdued crater-type thing and with a southern part of a ridge. The ridge runs east - west, and it looks like we've got a flow coming out of it. Let me see if I can get a quick picture of that one. Well, lost my camera [laughter]. Here it is. Oh, it's too late; it's gone now. You know something, you see this subsolar point, it's kind of - zero phase - zero phase point, I mean, is following me right along out here in Crisium, so I get a different color straight out from the window than I do out from the edge of it. So I think that's going to influence my thinking.
Okay. The color on Picard is - is definitely darker. It's got a darker rim, darker material that goes out to - oh about a half a crater and some points extending out to a crater diameter. And then from the south arcing around to the west to - to the northwest corner, you got some light-colored material on top of that.
Yes, you can. In the area where you have the white thrown out on top, you essentially got a - as - as you go down the crater wall, you've got a white streak that goes all the way around it, and then you've got a dark layer underneath that. And then a white layer on below that.
Well, the central peak material is - you know, it's more smooth-type stuff. This stuff in the crater walls is - fine, straight sloping, except where it's slumped down. Where it's slumped down, it's just kind of piled up - a jumble of - type stuff, you know?
Some of the - Ah, I was looking at the volcanic - or the dark-rimmed craters, and some of them have what I'd call a - an ejecta pattern around them; and the others just have kind of a raised rim with no apparent blocks. The one to the west - let's see, southwest - of that little V that sticks out there by Yerkes - that hill that sticks out there by Yerkes - now, that's the one that, to me, looks like it has an ejecta pattern around it with blocks. It's about a - oh, a thousand-meter crater.
Yes, I can just barely see Macrobius. And - [garble] it be better out of window 3.
Oh, here's a Macrobius A and B. Course, J-3 is up there. The two dark craters - well, the one just - north, I guess, of Macrobius A, and also north of J-3 - now that's the one that has the dark mound around it. It's got a small dome down in the center. It - it doesn't have any ejecta pattern around it - you know, no rays, no nothing. To me, that looks like - it sure looks like a cinder cone to me. You get that same type of feeling. The dark halo that goes around it goes out for at least a crater and a half diameter. The raised dome down in the center of the crater is about a fourth of a crater diameter. And there are no rays. And it has a dark halo.
See any color tones on that crater at all, Ron?
Yeah, the color on that particular - color of that is the same color as you see in Maraldi and as you see in the - the landing site. And that is what I - what I consider the dark - tannish - tannish-gray type of material. And again, the fresh craters around Maraldi still look kind of bluish to me, not as much as they did yesterday, but they still look kind of a - have a bluish tint to them from the reflection of the Sun. In other words, they are fresh craters and they are about the size of - one of them is about the size of MOCR, and the other one is about the size of Sherlock or Camelot.
Okay. Maraldi Gamma looks just like the rest of all of the surrounding hills around there. I think that's just a - some of the - what do you call it, the Sculptured Hills type of material that has been - was high and has been inundated by mare flow at one time or another. It had - mare flows kind of come up around it.
Next time I guess. Right now, I'm looking at the ridge system around the annulus of Serenitatis. And the dark material stops before you get up to - Oh, what's the crater that sticks into the side of Serenitatis and sticks out beyond the eastern edge of Serenitatis? Anyhow, the dark material stops before you get to there. The dark material only goes up to - let's see - There's a definite rille. There's a wrinkled ridge and at the east of the wrinkled ridge, there are two craters, about 20 kilometers in diameter. And then farther east of that is the - the rille. A graben, it looks like that goes up - and that's about the extent of the dark area that's the same as the - the same material as the landing site.
Okay. We're in the Tacquet area now, and in this case, the wrinkled ridge system that's out in the middle does not make a change in the color boundary. The color boundary is completely out to the outer edge and is - in the area of those - the rilles. Those are - There's kind of arcuate rilles, straight rilles, and in the Tacquet, yesterday, I said this was Sulpicius Gallus, but it's Tacquet - Tacquet area, but [garble]...
Yeah, the color difference - again the - You know, I just - I just now noticed that when I get down at this Sun angle, out in front of me, I got one color, and then I look straight down and I have a different color. But in this Tacquet area, you've definitely got some cinder cone type - No, I don't want to say cinder cone, but anyhow - volcanic. And it almost looks like a breached cinder cone right next to - I think it's Melrose [?] - is the name of that - that crater - the big one that's right on the edge of Serenitatis. I'll find it on the map and mark it for sure. But just to the east of that, it sure looks like a breached cinder cone in - in - in one of those rilles down there. And then that type of material is - is - kind of a dark tan in - at this Sun angle. And it's definitely darker than the - than the Serenitatis Basin material.
Hey, Ron, I - I blew that. Menelaus is west of Tacquet up there.
Do you have - do have any dark - do you have any dark halo craters near Sulpicius Gallus?
Okay. High Gain to Auto. Let me see, 22 Noun 70 to Enter. Okay. Let's see, plus 52.25. plus 52.25. Up-link. Verb 58 Enter. [Garble]. Proceed to [garble] gets out of the way. Okay. D-Caldera was taken on picture number 28. It was f/8 at 1/500, and then I took three more before that. They're terminator photos, looking north across Sulpicius Gallus and farther north. And they were 1/500 at f/16 to start with and then f/11.
Okay. Image Motion - let's see - I think that was barber pole plus three before. There it is. 3 - 4...
Laser Altimeter, On.
...at 141:50, I've got the Pan Camera photo PAD.
Okay. T-start time, 141:54:01; T-stop time, 142:18:24.
Ron, just for your information, we're playing back the voice playback from the last rev, and it'll be recorded in house. It is readable, and we can read it.
And your - your grounded friends down there are busy working around the LM right now and doing some loading the Rover and that, getting ready for the EVA-2 work. They're out on the surface and loading the Rover.
How's my - yeah, right. How's my ZPN? All I did was move it. I didn't put in a new sensor yet. Do I need to put on a new sensor?
Ron, the ZPN data isn't too good. It's the sensor sponges need to be replaced, if you didn't already replace them.
Okay, Ron. Here's your word on some magazines here. X-ray X-ray has to be left for the Zodiacal light. You - you should not take any more on X-ray X-ray until after Zodiacal light. Mag Oscar Oscar and Papa Papa are yours to play with, as long as you stay with the Flight Plan on the rest of the mags.
Hey, Ron. You got a 110 heart rate. What are you doing?
Okay. Keep it up, there; you got 120 now. Dr. Berry would like to keep it there for a while.
Okay. Got you 130 that time.
Hate to say it, because it's very dead serious work, but I'm kind of watching a lunar comedy as the - the two lunar stalwarts are trying to plan the new fender on the vehicle down there.
Yeah. Well, they lost a fender, and it was throwing dust up on Gene. It's just ridiculous how much dust they got on them, so they - they just decided they just had to go ahead and do something.
[Garble.]
Just talked to the home front a little while ago, and everybody's fine, Ron. And they were able to get the squawk boxes squared away, so she should have been listening to you for last couple of passes - all on the [garble]. The problem was it wasn't able to shut off one loop or the other, so today we've been - they've been able to get all - just the CSM loop in there for - during the AOS periods.
Hey, good. We can say that's because the guys went to the Moon, see?
About 5 min - 4½ minutes to LOS now, Ron. We went around the room, and all systems look good and you're just looking great.
Okay. Good show.
Okay; I just passed over - the - Crater Aitken again. That flat domical feature down there, especially, had a flow that's come out of that feature out into the flat maria trough. You can see the flow channel - going out, and then also, right in the breach right on the side of it, there is a second flow that has come out on top of the breach. And it stopped right in the breach itself.
Okay; there's 50. Pan Camera to Standby - Stereo - and - Power. Camera to Operate.
Okay. For the record there, mag Oscar Oscar took three pictures, one with an 80 and two with a 250 lens, and the exposures are now 106, I guess.
Keep losing my maps.
[Humming]
[Garble] all right.
There's the ole Earth. It's about a half Earth now.
Ron, is there a difference in the color between the dome and the mare in Aitken, there?
You know, you take a look at the central peak of Neper, and on the south and western edge of it, you get the vertical stripes in it or streaking like you get off of the massifs in the landing site area. And then, you look at the area around in the rim - around the rim of Neper, and you get the corncob - I guess - or Sculptured Hill-type of appearance.
Now. Okay, went to Standby at - whatever I said now. [Laughter.]
Off.
They're fresher ones. Okays let's see. We're going to Picard and then on up to - Yerkes - Where's Yerkes? There it is. Okay. Let's see where we're aiming at here. Okay. Is it about the time, does it look like?
Started it. Picard X.
Sure hope that color difference shows up in - on Picard.
Okay. It's about now. Change to 5.6. Getting out into the mare.
And, at Vitruvius again...
Now, we're getting into a relatively low Sun. And Serenitatis is a lot lighter colored than the - it's a light tan, to me. And then you - in the low Sun, you look out into Tranquillitatis, across Plinius, and that demarcation turns out to be the same - same kind of gray-tan. You know, it's a darker...
Okay. High Gain...
Rog. We see them.
You see a ray coming out of Menelaus going through - through Bessel? Is that one of Tycho's rays?
Okay. Understand. The bumps are light tan. Right?
Okay, yeah. Give me a call right there, because I got to get ready for this - I'll do the P52 first, so you all can see it, then I can always change that canister.
If you want to feel for some scale on that, just a reminder: the crater is about 3 kilometers deep, and the central peak is 400 meters high, Ron.
I hope it's Eratosthenes because the old Sun's shining right on my rendezvous light, out here.
I don't recall that, but sounds good, Ron.
That's affirmative.
Why don't you give me a hack when you're right over Kepler, Ron?
Roger. Good show.
And I'm looking out window 3 now, and you can still see those rays. They must be coming from Kepler. They go way on up north here toward - the next one is - is...
Can you see anything on that Marius Rille up there? Or is that too far up?
Roger. We copy that.
Got any - any more thoughts about what it is?
Roger.
That's the last of the - you know, it's kind of associated with its own little thing. It doesn't look like it's a ray. It doesn't look like a ray, in other words, it doesn't thin out in different parts of it, like a ray does.
Now.
We're passing over a - well, generally a hilly type of terrain, and then just before we get into Grimaldi area, it looks like we're out into a plains-type material, again, interspersed with a hummocky-type. I guess that hummocky - is - hummocky stuff is associated with Grimaldi.
Ah, she's pointing in the wrong direction.
Old heaters sure work on these optics. They're always nice and warm when you take them out.
Looks like Menkar.
Okay. Canopus. Canopus. Okay, take me to Canopus.
Okay, we just got a beautiful picture of the Earth from the - from the Rover. Just spectacular picture of the Earth.
You sound - you sound...
Okay, hey, real fine. You know the guys at lunar surface don't even have any ZPN, you know. They left it up here.
Oh, there's old 13. Take 14 out, so we - put [garble] in the bottom.
Hey, that sounds like an excellent idea. Thank you.
Okay, we're 11 - out - picked nice small ones, I gueas. None of them have been stuck so far.
Good thing I looked. Okay. And P52. Get gyro torquing angles. Let's see, we had 7 and 14 angles, wasn't it. We're not torquing now - we torqued at 190. Okay. We went to Auto, got to do a GDC Align. Okay. We'll go Manuel and Wide. Tens 25. Okay. We're configure. Okay. Lima Lima for 21 frames. Well, let's see. About to finish that one up. Verb 62 is not here though - Caged. Good. Let's see.
[Garble] Tank Inlet to Auto. Potable Tank Inlet is Open. Waste Tank Servicing is Closed. Repress Package valve is Off. Better than the simulator. [Garble] Regulators are both Closed.
Okay, intervalometer. Got to start counting 8 seconds here. Let me [garble] it pretty quick.
Solar corona.
There we go. Just passing Aitken again. It sure is interesting seeing a little bit of everything in there. I looked down in the - in crater A in a shadow, something all the way down inside there and in a box-type thing. But there is a definite glow - Hey, those swirls are almost gone. You can just barely see them now at this low Sun angle. The swirls are almost gone out of the crater Aitken. You can barely even see them so that's a pretty good indication that there is no topographic relationship to the - between the swirls.
And I forgot to look at the central peak on that thing other than the fact that I can remember the - the high-water mark. If - you've really got to check that high-water mark to make sure it's a high-water mark and not a talus slag - occasional talus slope. I've got to check that for sure.
Okay. There's Chaplygin [garble]. Okay. Marconi. The - There's Marconi. There's Marconi. Vil'ev and - Dellinger and Panne - Something like that.
There's an ejecta. Okay, Pannek - Pannekoek; Dellinger. [Garble] wouldn't mind the Dellinger. That's a - Oh, that's a big fella. Going down to - Chauvenev. Lane coming up. Hey, this whole area right in through here is as [garble] eroded [garble] and interspersed are the craters that are - maybe four or three or four or five of them up in the 50-kilometer bracket, but most Of them are in the 20- to 30-kilometer bracket. Of course, they are not the little bitty ones. But, they're like little beads in that they're still fairly sharp down in the rim, down inside the crater that makes the crater sharp, if you have these stri - striations.
When we get our pan camera pictures, take a look. It's got a lot of dark material. I think it's a good - There's a real little bitty impact crater must be, oh, 100 meters maybe, if that big. One hundred meters across and just to - to the east of that triplet of Love. Can't hold it in my [garble] long enough to look at it, but be sure and check the pan camera film for that. Okay. We're at - about at 130 and ready to go. [Garble] Okay. So, yes, that's about right. My [garble] is a little bit [garble] off.
[Garble]. Stop my camera up there. Got more pictures of King than I know what to do with. You know, down here go Abul Wfa. Abul Wfa.
The hardest part about taking pictures is that you've got to make sure you look through the viewfinder, make sure the other half of the camera isn't looking into the side of the window.
Houston, it's coming in. Rooster Tail [garble] - Yes, dark striations, vertical - [clipped]tion up and down the a - area rim. And it looks like there's a black - but they all look green. You know, it looks kind of a green-gray in this type of light, back on this side. And a green-gray material down in the center of the Rooster Tail, on the floor of the Rooster Tail. And the floor is about one-fourth of the diameter. Turn this thing off - 60 - minus - Peirce, scale 250, 8-second intervalometer, and I lost my intervalometer. Count 8 seconds, I guess. Stuck it around here and it disappeared. Nothing.
Okay, Lima Lima is on 161. I don't know how many's left. It says 160 on it, still going, but...
Mike Mike is starting with number 1.
Yes, it - yes, there is. The dome-type material is...
250 lens on this.
How'd the photos go, going right across Arabia there, on this last - little bit of go, Ron?
Okay, Bat Charger, Off. And A looks about 37 volts. Relay Bus is going Closed.
Yeah, I really saw them that time. And where the swirls, they really show up, are about a crater diameter from Firsov - crater diameter to the west. And I talked about it on the tape. But, basically they're kind of concentric swirls in that area with light and dark. And the contrast between the light and dark is - is something tremendous. The dark is not a mare dark - tan, but it comes real close to it.
Okay. When do I want to jump to f/11 going across those highlands, huh? At - on the western edge of Crisium?
Okay. There is absolutely no color variation on these flow fronts or scarps, or - By golly, flow fronts, looks to me like. Just looking north, right from the Picard X.
Well, Peirce Charlie has really got some black lines going down, vertical down them.
Yeah, do we go north of Macrobius Alpha?
Roger. You're quite a bit north of the site. You are over Li - Littrow. In fact, you're north of Littrow.
And, Ron, this camera path ends at Bessel A - Bessel Alpha in the Sea of - in Serenity - Serenitatis.
Okay. Serenitatis Sulpicius Gallus, huh?
Try to take a picture of it and couldn't find it [laughter]. Okay. Let's see, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Okay, next one is 11.
Okay. I found it.
Okay. It's On. I must have.
Okay. I have the camera Off. Yes, it's dark down there. I'm not getting any more pictures. Okay.
Mapping Camera to Off. Wait 30 seconds, it says. Okay. We're rolling left.
Okay. Mapping Camera to Standby. Off, barber pole, gray. Laser Altimeter, Off. Okay. We've already in CMC Free, and we're rolling left.
Okay, Mike Mike is at 95. I don't know if I ever told you that or not. I think I always get more pictures than I'm supposed to.
No, we haven't caught any, anomalies in the film usage.
You know, I just noticed something that I didn't know before.
Ron, while you're sitting there watching this manuever to completion, I've got some read-up from the orbital science report for the CMP if you would like to hear it?
Hey, beautiful. Man oh man. That sounds like all that stuff's working good. Outstanding. That's good - good to hear.
Okay, tank 2 Fans are going On.
Hear it rattling. It must be pretty close to attitude. Yep.
Rog. You've got a 50 18 on the DSKY.
There you have Accept.
[Laughter.] I just said it doesn't shake, rattle, and roll as much as it did when - when the other guys were on there.
Ron, we need Reacq and Narrow and the dials at 25 and 195 as is in the Flight Plan.
Manually, yes. Okay. I was just looking at the Earth out of window 3 here. Boy, that's beautiful! I have an Earthset pretty quick.
America, Houston.
Stand by.
Okay. Going to Block. TEI-49, SPS/G&N; 37568; plus 0.56, plus 0.96; and TIG 185:12:47.95. Delta VX: plus 2781.5, minus 1831.5, minus 0532.3; 80, 104, and 330; Rigel; 133, 200. Jet; 12 seconds. Lunar longitude at TIG is minus 178.34. Assume no plane change.
While you're doing your presleep checklist, you may be interested that - at Shorty, the surface crew found some very, very orange soil, a great deal of it. Indicates strong oxidation and possibly indicates water and/or volcanics in the area. And they're really - Jack's kind of like a boy at Christmas time. I'll tell you, a little kid at Christmas time on that one.
Okay. Ron, everything is - That's everything we've got from down here. Once you finish your presleep checklist, then you'll be clear to turn the comm off and - or turn the - the Down Voice, Off, and have a good night's sleep. And...
[Laughter.] Okay. Panel 9 is Receive, and we're in Duplex, and Squelch B is adjusted.
Well, we'll get down here and clean the old suit circuit return valve.
Hey, Ron. Did you have some noise in the cockpit just now?
Rog. Understand.
