Hello, Apollo 10. Houston. The networks and the Goldstone is all configured, you can turn on the tube.
Okay. We will get it out here and play it. [Long pause.]
Hello, Houston. This is Apollo 10. You ought to be receiving something now.
Stand by. It is not coming in here yet.
Okay. We are just starting.
Roger. Will it be exterior shots, Gene-o?
Negative. We'll just start interior right away and then take you outside.
Roger.
And then we'll bring you back inside. But we will start inside, take you outside, and bring you inside for the water bag.
Roger.
Okay. Let me know when you are receiving us.
Roger. We will. The networks and all are configured for this, so we are standing by. [Long pause.]
Let us know when you are getting a "pic," Charlie.
Roger. Sure will. EECOMs are saying we got a 90-second warm up on that transmitter, so it might take just a little bit longer. Okay. We got the black and white coming in now. The black and white just came in.
Let us know when...
Okay.
Let us know when you get color.
Okay. We are seeing your patch now in black and white. Be just a few more seconds.
Okay. We just got the color, 10, on the vidicon here and it is looking real good, maybe a little bit focus; but the colors are good and it is a nice, simple little patch we see.
This is the peacock of Apollo 10.
Roger.
And we'd like to say hello from the five of us, if we may.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay. You want me to be a straight man on that question and ask it?
Stand by one.
Okay.
Negative. Stand by one. Got a little technical difficulties here. [Long pause.]
We are still getting the color, 10.
Okay, 10. Here's the hello.
Okay. Go ahead.
Here's hello from the five of us from on Apollo 10. Here's Tom Stafford.
He's a beautiful Tom Stafford there. He's in living color.
John Young. [Pause.]
We've got John. He's a little dark down there now, with his lights not on him, but we can tell it's John with his chin strap loose.
And yours truly, Gene Cernan.
Roger. We got you, Gene. The sun is up pretty bright.
Are you still with us?
Yes sir. The Sun is pretty bright coming back out - Now you are coming in better. We see you slipping down in the LEB.
Okay. That's the three of us. Here's the other two on Apollo 10, your friendly Charlie Brown and our ever loving companion, Snoopy.
Roger. We got it coming in now. Okay. Color on Charlie Brown and Snoopy is a little dark. If you could get a little bit more light on them, it would be fine, but we can recognize the characters. They look pretty happy up there.
How's that?
That's fine. It looks a little dark on the color. Could you stop it open a little bit more? Wait a minute. Okay. That's fine now. There you go. The red and the background on the cards are coming in fine. We are washing out a little bit on the white of Charlie Brown's coat and Snoop's face.
Okay. Now, you know that there are five of us up here. We'd like to take you outside and show you what the five of us are looking at.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay. [Long pause.]
We got the big Earth in color and it looks like about a half-Earth to us. It's a beautiful blue. We see the tremendous cloud coverage that you were talking about throughout the day, 10.
Okay, Charlie. you are looking at the world rightsideup, as we know it. The Gulf of Mexico - Mexico goes down and to the right of the picture toward the terminator, South America is in the lower right, and corner of the picture on the terminator. You can look up right smack in the center of the whole picture. You can make out Mexico, is Houston, right on the Gulf, and then North America goes up to about the 11 o'clock position on your picture.
Roger. We copy. We see primarily just the blues of the ocean and the whites of the clouds. We have a - the cloud patterns are pretty evident. Agree quite - real closely with the weather map I have. It is pretty difficult to pick out the landmasses, though, I must admit. We see one brownish area which appears to be in the American desert, about the center of the globe right now.
Yes, Charlie. That's Mexico and the southwestern United States, right there; and Baja California is on the left of that, and the right-hand edge happens to be the Gulf of Mexico. If you can follow it all up, you will follow it right to Houston and thence New Orleans.
Roger.
It's awfully hard to ascertain the difference - Okay, Charlie. It's hard to ascertain between the water down there in the Gulf and the landmass, because the whole eastern coast of the United States looks a greenish brown versus water.
Roger. That helps us out here to locate ourselves, at least for me, 10; and I think I see where you are talking about now. We have one section of clouds that looks like it is almost a circular area - a clear area and then clouds appear to come out of South and Central America - swing out into the Pacific and in the center of that it looks like the clear area which I am saying is the southern part of the United States, from Mexico along the Gulf Coast. Is that correct?
That's it, Charlie. The Gulf of Mexico is right smack in the center up and down of the world. If you follow the terminator down and went halfway and then went about halfway from there toward the rounder part of the Earth, you will find the Gulf of Mexico on that brown area you are looking at, between Mexico and the southeastern United States. That's Houston right smack in the center of that clear area.
Roger. It appears...
That clear area goes from Central America right on up into the states.
Roger. We copy. It appears that the landmasses are washing out just about as much as the clouds. Could you open it up a couple of stops and then stop it down fast so we can get a little bit - a second or two of sharper definition?
Okay. Let us know when it is a little better.
Okay. It was a little - there you go. If you can hold that, but I think - That's good right there. It is a lot better, 10.
Okay.
Charlie, we are full zoom on you and it's even hard for us to make out things with the naked eye unless we know where they are. So, I imagine it is going to be difficult for you.
Roger.
Okay, Charlie. The total globe that you see there is bigger than what we actually see, since we have the zoom lens on and it is probably about one and one-quarter times as big as we see it.
Copy, 10. As I said earlier, we are primarily getting the globe on a black background, and we see the white of the clouds and the blues of the sea with an occasional glimpse of what I make out as landmasses in the brownish. But, it is really difficult for an untrained eye to pick out the exact landmasses. We are sitting here with the in-pad book that - We got it to show the various sizes and with this diagram, it is a big help.
What you are saying, Charlie, is that we are too far away to give you a good picture.
Boy, you sure are a long way away.
I think what it is, 10, is the landmasses and the clouds tend to wash out and it is a little hard to discern the difference; but looks like we can pick out the shapes of Yucatan, Florida, and Cuba, and the Gulf of Mexico.
Charlie, let me ask. Do you see the area you said was a clear area, and do you think you could pick up Mexico there?
Roger.
Okay. If you follow up - but you might think it is the Gulf of Mexico there - and then go straight north you see a little bit of V in the clouds and there's one going off to the right and a little thin sliver going to the right is the one I've been mentioning all day that goes from Indiana on through the northeast part of the country; and then that bigger blob that forms the left-hand side of the V is over the north, central United States and then right smack in center of the V is Lake Superior and Lake Michigan.
Roger. That is a good description, 10. It clears it up for me, anyway. I can see what you are talking about, now.
And then way up on the upper left-hand, maybe about 10 o'clock on the globe, you will see a funny cloud pattern that sort of looks like a sea serpent of some sort with his beak pointing to the right. That that cloud pattern that Tom was referring to up in the Alaska area.
Roger. That's nearly apparent to us. When you stop it down, we can see that pattern. Some of the time, though, it's washed out due to the tremendous cloud coverage in that area.
There it is, Charlie. That ought to be good.
Okay. It just came in on the black and white. We'll see it in just a second. Okay, now we see what you're talking about. Looks like an inverted view, almost.
Now you ought to be - Right, now you ought to be able to see that V-area I was talking about better, too.
Roger. It's coming in a lot better, Gene.
Okay. If you got a pretty good view of the outside, we'll take you back inside for one last quick minute.
Thanks a lot, 10, for that view. It's real good. We'll be standing by for the water-bag trick.
Okay. We'll take you back inside here, now.
I'll take care of it. [Long pause.]
Question for today: who is that?
It looks like John Young with four sets of eyes, there. Two sets of eyes.
There you go.
Let's ball it four eyes.
Looks like a World War I aviator.
That's what happens when you look through the telescope to see the Sun. [Long pause.]
Okay. It may sound like we've been loafing for the past couple of days, but we haven't. We've been real busy, and every spare minute we get we study our Flight Plan. So you see that pretty soon we're going to be going into orbit, and we have a completely different set of operations to go into that shows our pitch profile all around the Moon, for the first revolution. Tomorrow's a big day, and we're very much looking for it. Even though we're about 180,000 miles [333,000 km] away from the Earth here, you never get away from studying.
That's a great picture, 10. We can see the various spacecraft attitudes with the dark side of the Moon and the bright side. And we see the LM and the Command Module linked together and going into a LOI-1 burn attitude. It's real clear. You can almost read the writing on the pages.
Roger. Don't adjust your set. It's in black and white.
Roger. [Long pause.]
We can read on the...
If you want to know where we're going - We'll show you a little bit of a chart of where we're going. Day after tomorrow, we ought to be seeing this in living Moon color. Right now, it's in the best black and white we've got. This is the area around Landing Site 2.
Roger. Could you open it up a little bit, 10? We think maybe if you get a little bit wider f-stop, it'll help us out. Your pictures are a little bit dark.
That's a lot better, 10.
I can't see the f-stop, yet.
Okay, 10. When Gene moved back, it helped out a lot. If you'll just pull the chart back - that's good now. We can - It's coming in a lot better. Gene, could you...
The moral of the story is, John - The moral of the story is, John just said, "You know you can study all your life and you never finish studying," and here we are almost a quarter of a million miles away, and we're still studying. Like Tom said, he's got two girls taking final exams this week, and this is his way of saying, "Get to work."
Roger.
Yes, and if those girls are listening, they had better be studying tonight.
Okay. I'm sure they're listening. Would - Gene, how about pointing to a Landing Site 2 on the map for the folks?
Okay. Landing Site 2, I'll show you here in just a second. We'll be coming up from the bottom and I'll stop my finger up on Landing Site 2.
That's the area we hope to bring back some good pictures of in a couple of days.
Roger.
We'll eventually - That's the area where we'll eventually be actually landing on the surface of the Moon. This area is probably just about visible from - in the lighted - with the terminator of the Moon lighted, I mean, from the Earth at this time. just about.
Roger. We copy.
That's one advantage we have. If you don't like to turn your pages, you can always turn yourself instead.
Commander, you're in rare form today.
We figure that, you know, there's always a way of making pigs run downhill and maybe even knowledge will make it run that way.
Well, I guess that's the message to the kiddies in the country. If they can't get their homework right-side-up, go upside-down. They might be able to absorb more that way.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Looks like John's trying to hog the picture there, Gene. Why don't you - there you go, you pushed him out of the - you got - You got center stage now.
What a ham.
You want to see me push; watch what happens. [Long pause.]
That's called one-finger power.
Roger. [Pause.]
Okay, this is Apollo 10 signing off. We'll give you one more picture of the Earth here, and call it a day. Oh, hold it. We want to show you the bag, too.
Roger. We'd appreciate that. [Long pause.]
The bag is full of - half, full of bubbly water.
And for those of you who are unfamiliar, there's the valve where the air -and then the water comes out, and here's the handle. And notice, they're both on the same side. Are you ready?
Go ahead. [Pause.]
It's pretty difficult - get some more light on it, 10. It's pretty difficult to see the bubbles from that position.
I'll show you the bubbles, after I stop.
Okay. It was full of the [garble] thousands of minute little bubbles. You wouldn't pick them up. You can barely see them with the naked eye, but they're there.
l0, try spinning a little bit harder, and maybe that'll put the bubbles to the top.
Man, I spinned it so hard a little while ago, I was going in the other direction (laughter).
Roger. Gene. Hold it up next to the LEB DSKY. We couldn't see any bubble there. If you got one together. [Pause.]
Hey, that's a good spin; you're really spinning it now.
Okay. How's that for a bubble now?
Okay. We got it. [Pause.]
Okay. We see that bubble. Really a big one.
And it's in the bottom.
Charlie, about the only thing we get by spinning them is making the little bubbles into a big one and then it stays in the bottom.
Roger. Is there any water left in the top of the bag, 10?
No, there's no water in the top of the bag. All the water's out. We have tried it with semi-filled bags, with full bags, with half-full bags. What we really have been able to do, I think, is to get the bubble concentrated and then suck the water out from around it.
Roger. Have you tried it filling up - filling the bag - both top and the bottom of the bag and then spinning it?
Yes. We tried that, too.
Well, it doesn't look like it works then, does it? [Long pause.]
Charlie, you can see the bubble real good, can't you?
Roger. We have it, Tom. It's quite evident here to us. We'll have the experts look at this and maybe they can come up with something for later on this evening for you.
Hey, Charlie, it is true, though, that water goes to the bottom of the bag.
Roger.
And that phenomenon we have proved.
Also, when the air gets down there, we can stop spinning; the big bubble is at the bottom.
Roger. We copy.
Okay. This is Apollo 10. We'll take you outside for one last look at the Earth and sign off.
Roger. Thank you very much. [Long pause.]
Okay, 10. We just got the exterior view, and we got the Earth in the center of the screen, and it's a little bit different orientation this time. We see the North Pole up in the northeast about the 2 o'clock position on our screen now.
And he'll rotate the camera over a little bit. He was just tilting it for ease of handling here. He's rotated it back now, Charlie.
Roger. [Long pause.]
And from the five of us on Apollo 10: Tom Stafford, John Young, Eugene Cernan, Charlie Brown and Snoopy; we hope you've enjoyed it today.
Thank you much, 10. We appreciated the show; it was very nice. We'll see you tomorrow.
Okay. And tomorrow we should be around the Moon.
Roger.
Okay.
10, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger, Tom. On this water bag, the only thing we can suggest is fill the bag up completely full and then spin; and then if you got - need more water, fill it up again and then spin it and try until it's completely full, and then maybe slowly kneading that bubble up to the top. And if that doesn't work, then our only suggestion is going to the fruit juice bag and/or food bag and filling it up and then spinning it until you get a big bubble, and then kneading it up to the top where the food port is and evacuating it that way.
Roger. We've tried most of that but we'll press on here. And again, we're all thinking here, if that's the only problem we've got on this mission, we're going to be in great shape.
Roger. We concur.
Yes, I mean. You can tell what kind of shape we're in when we can talk about things like that.
Roger. Hey, it...
There is one thing I want Charlie to check.
Go ahead, 10. It appears just...
You sure like to talk a lot, Charlie.
I'm sorry. This time delay I think is giving us some problem. If you just keep talking, and when you hear me you're still downlinking and I'm still receiving so if I interrupt you, I'll just stop talking if you start or when I'm talking. Over.
Okay. Real good, Charlie. We'll try to be more observant on that. And again, you might give us a time when you want us to start the PTC mode again, and also I just want to check, is the color still looking pretty good on the TV?
Roger. We thought it was real good here, 10. The Earth - the interior - Hold on.
Back with you, l0. The interior shots in some of the darker portions of the spacecraft looked a little dull. However, when you're in the floodlights, everything was real fine. The exterior was very good, we thought. The whites and the blues and the Earth looked fine. We think the colors are real good. Everybody's real pleased with the operation of the camera. Over.
Okay. Real good, and the main thing too, I'm hoping that from the resolution that we have on the device, that when we get around the Moon tomorrow, we should show you some real good terrain features with the resolution we have on the instrument. Over.
Roger. We're looking forward to that. We think we'll be in pretty good shape. And we'll come up with a PTC time for you momentarily.
Charlie, were the pictures that we shot over the Straits of Gibraltar and the ones where we picked up South and North America over the whole Atlantic through Madrid, did they get played back to you?
We haven't seen them yet. The ones from Madrid will take 30 hours for us to get those. The Goldstone we're going to play back shortly, 10.
Okay. I guess we're at about the distance where the resolution on the camera doesn't really give you a chance to look at the Earth too closely. So, I guess we'll probably wait till we get on back to get any good Earth pictures.
Roger. The colors are still brilliant, but the resolution is fairly marginal now. You really have to have a map in front of you to pick out what you're describing. [Long pause.]
Hello, Apollo 10. Houston. You can initiate PTC at your convenience with the same procedure as utilized last night. Over.
Okay. We're going to go ahead now and start to pick it up.
Hey... [Long pause.]
Apollo 10, Houston. We'd like you to do a Verb 45. We saw you when you loaded the DAP - that 44 accidentally which set the surface flag -- and we'd like to reset that bit.
Yes. We just caught it, and we're getting out the G&N dictionary to do it ourselves.
Roger. [Long pause.]
I believe we're one mission too soon for that one.
Roger.
Houston, this is Apollo 10. Is that procedure still good for today? When we disable the C and D jets, do we disable the C and D - the C roll jets, also?
Stand by. That's affirmative, 10. We want you to disable all jets on quads C and D.
Roger. They're disabled.
Copy.
Okay. The clock is started, then after 20 minutes, we'll go ahead with normal procedure.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 10. Now we're 20 minutes after having started the PTC entry exercise.
10, Roger. We're watching. [Long pause.]
Roger. We'd like you to disable BD roll. [Long pause.]
10. We'd like you to disable BD roll and have AC roll On. Okay, we're in good shape. Excuse me.
That's affirmative.
Houston, Apollo l0. We have set up the PTC mode again.
Say again, 10.
Roger. We have set up the PTC mode, and it looks good.
Roger, 10. We are observing your roll rate, and we'll be looking at it and be with you shortly.
Roger.
And, Houston, how do you want me to handle the antennas? You want me to switch to Omni Bravo at this time or wait?
Stand by. We'll have some word on that. We would like you to discontinue battery A charging now.
Okay.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Roger, 10. Houston. Go ahead.
Looks like we're going to be losing High Gain track here in a minute.
That's affirmative. We'd like for you to go Omni Bravo and High Gain Antenna to Manual, please.
Okay, Giuseppe. Will do. [Long pause.]
Okay, 10, This is Houston. We'll be taking over control of the antenna now, and flight advises - it looks like your PTC - you've got it set up as good as - as good or better than it was last night when you had it - when you went 18 hours there without another thruster firing.
Okay, Joe. Understand. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 10.
10, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. You can now see the Earth and the Moon in the both windows. The Moon is in the right window - the Moon is in the left window and the Earth was in the right window. And you can see the Moon just as the Sun sets occluded behind the right window. There's a period of time in there, less than a minute you can see the Moon. It's a - practically a new Moon. It's only a sliver from where we are.
Roger. Copy.
I bet that's a pretty good sight from there, too. Right, John?
Right now, the Moon looks as big as the Earth. Does that seem about right to you all?
That looks about right from the little Earth/Moon transit graph we've got. They should look about the same to you. Can you feel them pulling about the same?
No. We feel the Moon pulling just a little bit harder right now, Joe.
Okay. Something's wrong. [Long pause.]
You're saying we're not in the lunar sphere yet?
Not quite.
You forgot - We can pull from here, too.
Okay. [Long pause.]
You guys are really slowing down out there. You don't want to stall it out now.
I guess we're just barely chugging along here.
What's the stall speed of this one, Joe?
I'm not real sure. I'll check that out.
Push your nose over when you feel it burble.
All right. We're getting close to that burble.
Apollo 10, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston. Apollo 10.
Roger, Tom. We'd like to switch your hydrogen around a little bit. Let's go to sleep configuration, tank 1. Tank 1 to Auto and tank 2 Off.
Tank 1 heater to Auto, tank 2 Off.
Roger. Verify.
Apollo 10, Houston.
Hello, Houston. This is Apollo 10.
Go, Apollo 10.
Roger. I got some onboard read-outs for you.
Roger. Ready to copy.
Okay. These were taken at 56 hours, [garble] Batt C is 36.8, Pyro Batt A is 37.0, Pyro Batt B is 37.0, RCS Alpha is 86, Bravo 86, Charlie 91, and Delta 87. The radiation dosimeter read-outs are commander 26032, the CMP is 05032, and the LMP is 15035.
Okay, Apollo 10. I read back: battery C is 36.8, Pyro A 37, Pyro B 37, RCS A 86, Bravo 86, Charlie 91, Delta 87 [garble]. RDU; commander 26032, CMP 05032, LMP 15035.
You got it, Ed. And we're in the process of cycling the H2 and O2 fans right now, and - I think the private conversation handles the crew status report this time.
Roger. Roger. I've got a couple of things for you. We'll use the same comm setup we had last night - on your Omnis B and S-band nominal voice mode Off. If you need to call us, do it on the downvoice backup, and this configuration ought to give us about 50 percent high bit rate. The decision has tentatively been made to skip midcourse 4. You can sleep in until 71 hours if you so desire. We'll give you a buzz if there's any change on that. Your consumables right now look real great, Gene. We've got single tank capabilities at 200 hours at 50-amp consumption. Your batts are all above the red line, and at this point, we can go even if your batt charger fails. And query: did you pass on, on the other conversation, any exercise info? We'd kind of like to know if you're using the exerciser and how you like them.
Okay. Right now, we've done a lot of isometrics up here today, and [garble] spent most of our time studying today. We've made - done a lot of isometrics, and we haven't got the exerciser out. We plan to use it after we get through that big exercise with the suits that day.
You think you'll be strong enough after that? [Long pause.]
Okay, Apollo 10. I guess that's all we have at the moment. You're free to start turning in and get 15 hours of sack time in - if you want it.
...Say that again about the single tank. I'm not sure I fully understood you.
We cut each other out, Apollo 10. Try me again.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10. [Pause.]
Go ahead, Apollo 10. [Long pause.]
Hello, Houston. This is Apollo 10. Over.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Reading you loud and clear. Go ahead. [Long pause.]
Apollo 10, stand by Goldstone having communication problems with Houston.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Goldstone, Houston. Comm Tech voice check.
Goldstone.
Roger. How do you read?
Loud and clear.
Roger. Stand by. I'll send you three short keys.
Alrighty.
Keys are Go.
Roger. Thank you.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. How do you read now?
Okay. We're reading you loud and clear now.
Roger, Apollo 10. We lost our link out to the site. Where were we when you lost me?
We were talking, Ed. I don't know how much you got about the exerciser info. We haven't really had a chance to take it out and use it. We've been doing isometrics - against the seat, the struts, and so forth.
Hello, Houston. This is 10. Are you reading now?
10, this is Houston. You're coming in rather broken. I got the info on the exerciser, Gene. That about concludes all we have for you at the moment. You're free to go ahead and get 15 or so hours of sleep if you can, and the surgeon wants me to remind you to be sure and chlorinate your water.
Okay, Ed. Understand. I do have one question. Repeat to me what you said about the single hydrogen tank capability. Would you, please?
Roger. We have a single tank capability for 200 hours at a 50-amp consumption.
Is that 200 hours from this point or GET at 200 hours?
GET.
Okay. Fine. Thank you.
Okay - Ed, this is John. My question is - With regard to this sleeping in until 71 hours, okay; but we need to be able to reschedule those events that occurred before 71 hours, and some sort of plan. And preferably I'd like to get the realigned change in our REFSMMAT in as soon as we wake up, so if we have any problems with it we can reshuffle them and get going.
Roger, John. We'll get to work on that. There's - there doesn't seem to be too many things to shuffle here. I personally doubt if you'll be able to sleep 15 hours anyhow.
It's an admirable goal.
I completely agree.
What we plan to do is stay up a little bit later tonight.
Say again, Tom. You were cut out on the last one.
Roger, What we had planned to do is just to - When we saw this was coming up ahead, we thought we could cycle ourselves better. We planned to stay up a little bit later tonight, and tell the friendly gentleman on the left we have not forgot the chlorination.
Roger. Roger. One item I omitted, Apollo 10, is with the omission of the midcourse, you can expect about 3 feet per second [1 m/s] to get to the middle of the corridor if you have to fly by it. Belay that - It was 13 feet per second [4 m/s] to get to the middle with no midcourse, and take about 3 feet if we were to do it, which we've decided not to at this time.
I think we should be able to afford that.
That doesn't seem unreasonable at all.
Apollo 10, Houston.
Go ahead, Joe.
Roger, Tom. Just to clarify here, I think Ed was talking to you about your trajectory and referenced the midcourse burn - correction on the midcourse burn in your flyby. That was the LOI-minus-5 burn that he was talking about. If you make it there, it's a 3-foot-per-second correction; and if you wait until flyby, it will be a 13 foot per second.
Roger. That's what we understood there, Joe. Over.
Okay. Fine. I thought he said midcourse. I wanted to clarify that.
Boy, that's a fantastic target until Retro. That's great.
Boy, agree there.
Yes, Joe. Tell Glynn Lunney and Phil Shaffer and just all those good people who got the - total network and guidance operating, we can't thank them enough. That targeting is just utterly fantastic.
Roger that. They say it's their pleasure. [Long pause.]
Okay. Tell them - Tell them I'm going to save my praise until I see 60 miles above the Moon.
Roger that.
("On a Clear Day" played here)
(Whistling) Reveille! Reveille! Up all hands, heave out, trice up, clean sweep down, fore and aft.
Apollo 10, Houston. Sounds like we're ready for a Naval drill on the flight deck.
That's good music.
How'd it come through this time, John?
It's loud and clear. It's beautiful. Sounds like we've got stereo.
Houston, this is 10. The world doesn't look very much littler than it did yesterday.
10, Roger. I bet you the Moon looks a little bigger, though. [Long pause.]
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10. How do you read? [No answer.]
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10. How do you read? [No answer.]
Apollo 10, Houston. Go ahead. Over. [No answer.]
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10. How do you read?
Apollo 10, Houston. Loud and clear; how me? Over. [No answer.]
Apollo 10, Apollo 10, Houston. Over.
I'm keying.
Apollo 10, Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
Apollo 10, Houston. How do you read? Over.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10, How do you read? Over.
Apollo 10, Houston. How do you read? [No answer.]
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10. How do you read? [No answer.]
Madrid.
Houston, Apollo 10. Over. [No answer.]
Goddard Voice, Houston Comm Tech.
Goddard Voice.
Roger. I cannot raise Madrid.
Do you want Madrid to come up on here?
Yes, sir.
Roger.
Madrid Comm Tech, Houston Comm Tech, NET 1.
Apollo 10. This is Madrid Comm Tech.
Roger, Madrid Comm Tech. We can read you loud and clear. How us?
Loud and clear. Houston is having a problem contacting you.
Roger.
Madrid Comm Tech, Apollo 10. Is Houston reading us at all?
Negative. Not at this time.
Comm Tech.
Apollo 10, Houston. How do you read? Over.
Apollo 10, we are reading you loud and clear.
Loud and clear, Jack.
How do you read us? Over.
Loud and clear.
Roger. You are coming through good now. Have you got all those lazy bones up there?
Yes. They're all up.
Everybody's up, and everybody feels great, Jack.
Good. Glad to hear it. You ought to with that kind of sleep. You missed the music, though.
What's the news this day?
We're standing by for news. We'll get it to you.
Okay. We wanted to go ahead and get to the consumables update and go through a couple of things here, before we get into it.
Okay. We've got a consumables update for you and Flight Plan update, when you're ready.
Okay. I'm ready to copy. Go ahead.
Here's your consumables update which is current GET of 70 hours: your RCS total 85 percent, quad A 85 percent, quad B 85 percent, quad C 84 percent, quad D is 86 percent. Your H2 total is 40 pounds, your O2 total is 484 pounds, your RCS is 7 percent ahead of Flight Plan. We have a considerable...
Okay, copy that.
...bit of Flight Plan updating to do. Are you ready to copy the Flight Plan update?
Okay. Stand by and we'll go. We got the consumables update, and we are ready to copy on the Flight Plan.
All right. The Flight Plan update follows.
Say Jack, where are you going to start?
We're going to start at the - 70 hours.
Okay.
Okay. We deleted all midcourse correction activities. And starting about this time, when you are ready, we would like to begin the fuel cell O2 purge. We would like at 70:30 to get the postsleep checklist. At 70:45 we will do the P27 update and pass along our new pads. At 70:50 do the canister change. That leaves our TV update on schedule.
And at 71:15 you can begin the P52. And this would then put us back on our nominal time line with ECS redundant component check at 71 plus 55. I'd like to point now, however, that...
Okay. Do you want to...
Go ahead.
You want to commence that O2 purge about this time, sleep checklist at 70:30, about 70:45, P27 update, about 71 hours canister change, about 71:15 at P52, and the TV pass is the same as scheduled.
That is affirmative. Also, we would like you to know that LOI is now about 11 minutes later than our preflight planning, because we didn't burn midcourse correction 1 and made our translunar trajectory adjustment at midcourse 2 instead. So this puts us 11 minutes behind on LOI and 11 minutes behind throughout all of our lunar orbital activities. I have some additions to make.
Roger. That means we will burning LOI late.
Will be burning LOI approximately 11 minutes late. All other activities will be retarded by 11 minutes, and we will come up with a more accurate PAD in a moment. I'd like you to make some additions to your Flight Plan. At 73:15, verify on panel 382 that your primary evaporator water control is in Auto and, along with that, reservice the primary evaporator. And then at 73:30, on schedule, you can activate the primary evaporator. Then, Apollo 10, we would like you jump over to 84 hours and 20 minutes and make a change there. Change the battery A charge to battery B charge: that is, B service A.
Roger, Houston. At 84:20, we'll initiate battery B charge instead of A, and at 73:15 we'll reservice the primary Evap and then activate the Evap at 73:30 on schedule.
That's affirmative. [Long pause.]
Houston, this is 10. I'll go ahead and initiate that fuel cell O2 purge on schedule now, and I did, however, do one last night before turning in, I'm sure you're aware of.
Houston. Roger. We copy. At 73:15 or when you reservice the primary evaporator, we want to make sure that you verify that the primary Evap water control is in Auto. You didn't read that back. Over.
That's affirmative. We checked it. It is in Auto. It is in Auto.
Roger. Thank you.
Apollo 10, Houston. We have the morning newspaper if you've got time to listen now.
Go ahead. We'd like to.
Roger. During the night, you entered the lunar sphere of influence: at 61:51, to be exact. And you are now 13,957 miles [25,848 km] from the Moon at 4,056 feet per second [1,236 m/s]. Technically, there is no change in the CSM systems status or your LM heater currents, and you are ahead of your Flight Plan on all consumables. And now the newspaper: the flight of Apollo 10 has been temporarily knocked out of the lead story position in the Houston Post. William Forster has resigned his position as Administrator of the Harris County Hospital, but never fear! As the Apollo 10 nears the Moon, news services around the world have followed the flight. It's been estimated that over a billion people have seen at least some of the television pictures from the Apollo 10. Whether you want to be or not, you're famous. But in spite of this enthusiasm, that now-unemployed local philosopher to whom we referred yesterday, says now he thinks color television is on its way out, way out. In other news highlights, Governor Nelson Rockefeller continues his South American tour. His reception in Peru was not too friendly. President Nixon will meet with South Vietnamese Premier Thieu on the island of Midway on June 8. Leaders of the Presbyterian Church, meeting in San Antonio, have called for the Nixon administration to restore diplomatic relations with Cuba. Texas International Airlines has won the privilege of sending the first plane into the new Houston International Airport on June 8; 99 VIPs will be aboard the flight that will depart from Hobby Airport and land at 1 minute after midnight. A 2-day open house featuring air show will be held on May 31 and June 1. The Soviet Union launched an unmanned spacecraft into orbit yesterday. It had been designated Cosmos 282. An old buddy of ours, world traveler Frank Borman, has arrived in Prague, Czechoslovakia, for the 12th plenary session of COSPAR. Although the Czech press did not mention Frank's arrival, there were several hundred people on hand to greet him. Frank waved back and said, "Hey, Hey." Frank doesn't speak Czech too well, you know. In sports news, it was Houston over Montreal 5 to nothing, and Cincinnati over Philadelphia 4 to nothing. In the American League, Detroit defeated Chicago 7 to 6, New York over Oakland 2 to 1, Washington beat Seattle 6 to 5, Cleveland over Kansas City 4 to 1, and Minnesota downed Baltimore 3 to 2 in 13 innings. In today's big sports story, the former scourge of the Big Ten, the University of Chicago, will resume intercollegiate football. This fall, the Maroons, once coached by the famous Amos Alonzo Stagg, will play such big midwestern football giants as Wheaten College, Lake Forest College, North Central Illinois, and Valparaiso at Indiana. That's the University of Chicago, that's a town up north, you know. In golf, today is Pro-Am day at the Atlanta Classic. That's today's newspaper.
You're a good newsman, Jack. That's fine stuff.
That came from the Public Affairs Office here.
What was the name of that town up north?
Let's see: C-h-i, Chicago, Chicago.
Oh, yes. I was looking at it yesterday. I saw them out these practicing. Speaking of Chicago, did the Cubs play ball?
I don't have them listed, Gene. Do they play ball?
Oh, you're really bad; You're really bad. Say, listen, I've got some random readings for you. How about the commander 26034, the CMP is 05034, and the LMP is 15036.
Oh, you tried to catch me there, didn't you? The CDR is 26034, the CMP is 05034, and the LMP is 15036.
I knew, being a Marine you'd be on your toes Listen, we just cycled the fans, we purged the fuel cells, we'll change the canister here in about 20 minutes, and we're grabbing a bite of chow right now.
Houston. Roger. We copy. [Pause.]
With your military background I bet it really hurts you to see us sleep, doesn't it?
I was just about to ask you how you slept. I know John, he probably either slept on his back, his side, or his stomach; but how about the rest of you?
The CDR slept great.
Roger, CDR. We know that.
I slept with those other three guys under the couch down there - those three guys with the big suits.
Okay. They probably didn't keep you awake.
And believe it or not, I slept pretty well.
Roger. Thank you.
I slept pretty well, Jack. I got - I don't know - about 6 or 8 hours of pretty good sleep.
Houston, Apollo 10. Over. [No answer.]
Houston, Apollo 10. Over.
Go ahead, Apollo 10.
Roger. We decided maybe we can get around this delay problem by trying to remember to say "over" after every conversation, but it hasn't worked too well so far. Over.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Let's get back to that one in a couple of minutes. We're getting a lot of background noise.
Apollo 10, Houston. Say again your last transmission, please.
Roger, Jack. We thought maybe we could get around this delay problem by taking a cue from something we were doing last night, and that's by saying "over" at the end of every conversation. Over.
Roger. We copy. Over.
Roger. And we have been operating with the S-band Squelch in Able for the last 2 days and request to know if that's been bothering you there, or if that affects our operations. Over.
Roger. Stand by one, please. Over. [Long pause.]
Apollo 10, Houston. The S-band Squelch switch position doesn't affect us in any way. At this time, we'd also like you to - on your H2 cryo heaters go to Off on tank 1 and to Auto on tank 2, and we'd like to verify a valve position on 382 that the - panel 382 that the primary Evap flow water control is in Auto as opposed to the switch on the panel. Over.
Roger. That valve is in Auto, and it's been in Auto since lift-off. Over.
Roger. Over. [Pause.]
That's "Roger. Out," Jack. Over.
Houston, this is Apollo 10. Over. [Long pause.]
Apollo 10, Houston. Stand by one, please. [Long pause.]
Apollo 10, Houston. Go ahead. Over.
Roger. I was just wondering what we - Are we going to knock off the PTC to do the realign to the new REFSMMAT? I guess we are. I would like to get an attitude to go to which will avoid that desired gimbal angles - use gimbal lock, Program Alarm if possible.
Roger. Stand by.
And, the second thing is, does this change in our flight time at the Moon affect this lunar umbra that we get into before we get to the Moon? Over.
Apollo 10, Houston. You'll be entering lunar penumbra 10 minutes later; that will be at approximately 72:50, and sunrise will be 10 minutes later, at about 74:50. Over.
Roger.
Apollo 10, Houston. We're coming up with a P52 realignment attitude, and in the meantime, we're standing by with the P27 update computer and several PADs to call down when you are ready.
Roger. Go ahead, and we will go to Accept on the computer; and, if you can stand by on the pads for a couple of minutes, we will be with you.
Apollo 10, Roger, Copy. [Long pause.]
Apollo 10, Houston. Your uplink is coming at you now.
10, Houston. The attitudes which you want for your lunar landing Site 2 REFSMMAT, P52 IMU realign: stop your roll at 330 degrees and then pitch down to 30 degrees. Over.
Roger. Stop the roll at 330; pitch down to 30. to do the realign? As outlined in the Flight Plan?
10, this is Houston. According to the Flight Plan, we have that at 71 plus 20, roughly.
Yes. We've got that, Jack.
Roger.
Apollo 10, Houston. Uplink complete; you can go to Block. Over.
Okay. We're at Block.
Houston, Apollo 10. On that attitude, besides the 330 roll, you said pitch down 30 degrees. Was that down 30 degrees from 90 to 60, or down to an inertial angle of 30 degrees? Over.
Stand by one, 10.
Apollo 10, Houston. The angle to which you want to pitch down is 30 degrees. Over.
Roger.
Hello, Houston. This is 10. I'm ready to copy up your PADs.
Roger, 10. Maneuver PAD follows. This is a PC plus 2 PAD. SPS/G&N: Noun 47 is NA, 077 - correction - Noun 47 is NA, Noun 48 is also NA, 077:55:29.00, plus 4318.4, minus 0345.9, minus 1391.0, roll is blank, pitch is 312, all the rest is NA. Over.
Okay. It's PC plus 2. Is that correct?
Affirmative.
SPS/G&N: Noun 47 is NA, 48 is NA, Noun 33 is 077:55:29.00, plus 4318.4, minus 0345.9, minus 1391.0, roll is blank, and pitch is 312, and everything else is NA.
Roger, 10. That is affirmative. Another maneuver PAD follows. Over.
Go ahead.
This is preliminary LOI-1. SPS/G&N: 62554, plus 0.95, minus 0.17; 075:55:53.71; minus 2913.9, minus 0561.4, minus 0296.8; 355, 230, 342; 0169.2, plus 0059.5; 2982.3, 5:54, 2975.1; 16, 214.0, 39.2. The rest is NA. Your set stars are Vega, number 36, and Deneb, number 43. Roll align is 241, pitch align 240. Yaw align is 013, no ullage. Your LM weight is 30727. Over.
Roger, Jack. That's LOI-1, SPS/G&N: 62554; plus 0.95, minus 0.17; 075:55:53.71; minus 2913.9, minus 0561.4, minus 0296.8; 355, 230, 342; 0169.2, plus 0059.5; 2982.3, 5:54, 2979.1; 16, 214.0, 39.2. The rest is NA. Set stars are Vega, 36, and Deneb, 43. 241, 240, 013; no ullage, and the LM weight is 30727.
Roger, 10. That's affirmative, and another maneuver PAD. TEI number one. SPS/G&N: 38766; minus 0.57, plus 0.59; 078:11:42.00; plus 3113.9, minus 0102.8, plus 0072.5; roll is blank, pitch is 034, the rest is NA. Over.
Roger. TEI-1, SPS/G&N: 38766; minus 0.57, plus 0.59; 07:11:42.00; plus 3113.9, minus 0102.8, plus 0072.5; roll is blank, pitch is 034.
That's affirmative, and another maneuver PAD: TEI plus four. SPS/G&N: Noun 47 and Noun 48 are NA. 084:39:12.00; plus 3408.7, minus 0151.8, plus 0046.4; roll is NA, pitch 027; and the rest is NA. Over.
Okay, Jack. TEI plus 4 is SPS/G&N: Noun 47, 48 NA. I got 084:39:12.00; plus 3408.7, minus 0151.8, plus 0046.4. Roll is NA and pitch is 027.
That is affirmative. And, the next is your TV attitude, when you are ready to copy. Over.
Okay. I'm ready. [Pause.]
Okay, Gene. For the television, your inertial...
Go ahead Jack. [Pause.]
Apollo 10, Houston. Go ahead. Over.
I'm ready to copy. Over.
Roger. I just have some new dope on the TV attitude. TV attitude is the same as your inertial attitude for the P52; that is, roll 330 degrees, pitch 030, yaw three balls. And for the above attitude, your High Gain Antenna angles are pitch plus 38, yaw 299. Over.
Hey, Jack, are those attitudes going to change as soon as we do a P52 realign?
Stand by one, 10.
The attitude will stay the same, but the inertial reference system will switch its little whatchacallits. [Long pause.]
Houston, 10.
Apollo 10, Houston. The attitude that was just passed up is the attitude in which you should stay to have TV looking at the Earth. However, when you torque your platform after the alignment, you will have different angles readout. Over.
Roger, Jack [garble].
Apollo 10, Houston. I didn't copy your last transmission. Say again, please.
There's no hurry [garble]. [Pause.]
Apollo 10, Houston. Tom, I'm not reading you, but I'm reading John okay. Could you have a relay there, please?
Okay, we're squared away, Jack. We got the Earth out of Tom's window now; we will be able to handle it. And I've got a question. Who has been feeding Snoopy? He's 8 pounds heavier than he was a little while ago.
Well, peculiar things happen out there, you know. We will check on that.
He's eaten 8 pounds of something since yesterday.
Houston, Houston. This is 10. We are commencing the redundant component check. We will check the main regulators here in a second.
Roger, 10. We copy. [Long pause.]
Coming at you, Houston.
Say again, 10.
Well, if you didn't get it, that was a main regulator being checked there.
Roger. Understand. Main Reg check. The reason for the increase in LM weight is that we pumped a few pounds of oxygen in there, and this was not included in the PAD update yesterday. Over.
How about that.
Have you got any? [Garble]. No. [Long pause.]
Boy, Houston, you all think of everything. I never would have considered that.
Houston, Apollo 10. How do you read me now, Jack?
I'm reading you loud and clear now, Tom.
Okay. I didn't have the mikes up close enough I guess, so that was the main trouble. Over.
Roger. You're real good now, Tom. Out.
Houston, this is Apollo 10. Good news tonight. I can see Acrux, and Alpha and Beta Centauri, and it's the first time I've been able to see a constellation I could recognize since we got up here.
Roger. Good news, 10. Your friendly Black Team is now on duty here in the MOCR.
We thought we could hear you changing shifts. We could hear a lot of noise in the background, there, when Jack was passing up the update.
Yes. We were trying to get up to speed here, Did you guys sleep well?
Jack's already asked that.
Okay. I'll get it from Jack, then. [Long pause.]
I thought you guys go through a formal change-of-the-command ceremony down there every morning.
Say again. Over.
The ECS redundant component check is complete, and our secondary loop looks good. And my other comment was that I thought you'd have to go through a formal change-of-command ceremony to get a hold of the microphone down there.
The CapCom position is definitely fully manned, I'll tell you that. We have about five of us sitting around.
I guess only a Marine could sound as chipper as Jack does in the morning.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. We're going to torque the platform now. Those are pretty small torquing errors, considering it sat around all night and then got itself all torqued up.
We copy, 10. Over.
Roger. Can you see the gyro torquing errors down there now?
That's affirmative. We have them. Over.
Hello, Houston. Houston, this is 10. How do you read in High Gain?
10, Houston. Reading, you about four-by on the high gain.
Okay. We're now Auto High Gain Narrow at the present time.
Roger, 10. You're just a little scratchy.
Okay.
