Hello, Houston. Apollo 10.
Hello, Apollo 10. Houston standing by. We were going to let you sleep in a couple of more hours, but we're ready to go if you are.
Roger, Jack. Just woke up, and feel great, and starting to take down a few of the window shades. Again, this REFSMMAT is really a beautiful attitude, because we can see the Moon out one window and the Earth out the other window, and then the Sun; and it looks like things have gone real good. I can't tell if you've fired a thruster ever since we set these up - this attitude up last night. Over.
No. We haven't fired a thruster. The attitude's looking real good. And we got a little traveling music, if you'd like to listen.
Go ahead. Over.
OK. Stand by.
It's So Nice To Go Traveling - Frank Sinatra.)
OK, 10. Houston. How'd the traveling music come through?
That was really great, Jack. You people have come up with some some real great numbers there for us. We sure appreciate it. Over.
Well, thank you, Tom. Since the other day you made a special request for the Marine Corps Hymn, why, everybody around here has been trying to get us to play that. But I can't allow them to do that since you'd have to stand up, and you guys have said you don't know which way is up so we can't play that one.
OK. Understand. Over.
Hey, Jack, how come it takes so much longer to train you to be a CapCom than Charlie and Bruce and Joe?
What Gene's trying to say is that good Marine Corps training must have come through, there. Over.
I hear you. Keep talking.
Just kidding, there. Over.
Well. You may notice that your exhaust temperature in fuel cell 2 is stabilized out, and sure enough, it's been that way for the last few hours. So it looks like that's no sweat. Your trajectory, by the way, is right on. You're laying right in the middle of the fairway there - it - taking us - It's going to take us about 15 hours to predict the uncertainties in your trajectory, as a matter of fact, so we're going to skip midcourse 5. And we have a choice of making either midcourse 6 or 7. And we're going to make midcourse 6, I believe, and it'll only be 1½ feet per second. Over.
Roger. That just sounds beautiful. It looks like that burn back of the Moon - the guidance and the trajectory, and everything put us right in the - just right down the alleyway of the fairway. Over.
Righto. You're going to pass through the lunar sphere of influence at 148:39. And during the time you were sleeping, you got to the point where you stopped decelerating, and you are now accelerating, and you're 187,300 miles out, and you're about 4,800 feet per second.
Roger. 4,800 feet per second. We've got a beautiful view out here of both the Earth and the Moon in our hatches and say every half a rev, we can see both of them for quite a while. And when you get High Gain lock through Goldstone, we'll show them to you for just a couple of minutes. Over.
Sure would like to take a look at that. Let's see if we can crank that up.
Roger. I don't know if Goldstone has contact yet. I'll leave that up to you. Over.
Hey, Jack, I just put battery A charge. Started about 2 minutes ago.
OK. That was one of the items in the Flight Plan update, and I understand you've got Batt A charge on the line. Got a little bit of advance weather in the landing area. The forecast for your landing time is 1,800 scattered, 10,000 broken, high broken, winds 120 at 15. Seas will be 5 feet, and there are scattered showers in that area, which means less than 10 percent of the area has showers. Right now, there's a stationary front sitting over that area, but it's quite weak. And the recovery forces this morning conducted a simulation in the area.
And, 10, we've got some morning news here, if you want to listen to it sometime.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10. Over.
Apollo 10, Houston. How do you read me now?
Roger, Jack. Reading you loud and clear. I guess we switched antennas, and we lost comm just about the time you said 1,800 scattered. Over.
Oh, all right. We'll go through that again. Your forecast weather for the landing area is 1,800 scattered, 10,000 broken, and high broken. The winds will be 120 at 15, 5-foot seas, and there are scattered showers in the area, which means, however, there's less than ten per cent getting showers, and the recovery people were conducting a simulation in your landing area this morning. There's a stationary front in the landing area. However, it's relatively weak, as you can tell from the weather. And we'll continue updating you on the weather periodically. We also have some morning news here if you want to listen to it.
Roger. Go ahead.
OK. Apollo 10 morning newscast from the Manned Spacecraft Center Public Affairs Office. Everybody's really raving about your latest television pictures. They say, the television pictures of the Moon beamed to Earth from Apollo 10 shortly after TEI are being described as the most spectacular of the mission. Because of the early morning schedule for much of the U.S., the transmission is being replayed at various hours throughout the day. However, the consensus of opinion here is the same as yours, utterly fantastic. Aside from the Apollo 10 news, here is a summary of other news highlights and a look at sports. President Nixon took time off from his busy schedule to enjoy a band concert on the White House lawn yesterday with the Soviet Ambassador Dobrynin. Music was provided by the University of Minnesota Concert Band that had just returned from a concert tour of the Soviet Union. Dobrynin was so pleased with the concert that he suggested that the tuba player be named Secretary of State. Both Dobrynin and President Nixon were observed tapping their toes and clapping hands as the band played "Minnesota, Hats Off To Thee." Another historic voyage was scheduled to begin today from the coast of Morocco. Norwegian adventurer Thor Heyerdahl was scheduled to leave the North African coast for an ocean voyage to the Caribbean Islands. Remember, he's the guy who had the crewman aboard that had three wives, the last one costing the outrageous sum of 60 bucks. Anyway, Heyerdahl and his crew of six are sailing in an exact copy of an ancient Egyptian sailing vessel. The boat is made of papyrus reeds. The U.S. Senate is expected to give quick confirmation of Judge Warren Burger as the new Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Chief Justice-Designate Burger is reported to be a law-and-order-type judge. The City of Houston is without a symphony orchestra. Musicians rejected a 3-year contract proposal yesterday. Andre Previn also conducted his last concert with the orchestra. Former Governor John Connally told graduating students of the University of Saint Thomas that, despite the problems within the United States, our country is the greatest organized society this world has ever known. Connally received an honorary doctorate at the school's commencement exercises. Here's a look at sports. The Astros shut out the New York Mets last night by a score of 7 to 0. A crowd of almost 11,000 saw Tom Griffin pitch a five-hit shutout, striking out 13 batters. The Cubs' Ken Holtzman shut out San Diego 6 to 0, and it was Philadelphia 6, Atlanta 2. The Cubs now lead their division by five games while Houston is nine games out of first place in the Western Division of the National League. One of these days Oklahoma will have a baseball team. The weather is good for time trials at the Indianapolis Speedway. The weather is good for time trials at the Indianapolis Speedway today. A.J. Foyt and Roger McCluskey are expected to battle it out for the pole position. In previous runs around the track, Foyt has done over 172 miles an hour and McCluskey over 170 miles per hour. Mario Andretti smashed into a wall yesterday and totaled his Lotus-Ford, but was not seriously injured. He came back to drive a test lap in his backup car at a speed of 169 miles an hour. Foyt will try to win an unprecedented fourth "Indy 500" race. Augie Erturth is reported to have resigned his post as assistant athletic director at Rice University. Athletic Director Bo Hagan is expected to make the announcement today and appoint a successor to Erturth. Pete Brown shot a 66 to take the halfway lead in the Atlanta Classic Golf Tournament. After 36 holes, Brown has a card of 135. And the big name golfers are all down in the pack, three to six strokes off the pace. Boxer George Forman has signed up a manager and will make his professional boxing debut at Madison Square Garden in June. The 1968 Olympic champ is, according to his new manager, Houston's first heavyweight champion of the world. The Dallas Cowboys yesterday announced that reserve quarterback Jerry Rhome has been traded to the Cleveland Browns. In return, the Browns will set an undisclosed 1969 draft choice. The Cowboys will still have Don Meredith and Craig Morton in addition to Roger Staubach the former Navy great who joins the team this fall. And a final note, preparations are being made for a hero's welcome for the Apollo 10 crew at Pago Pago. Governor Owen Aspinall says he will personally supervise the welcoming. Over.
Roger. Houston. That's quite a bit of news. And tell the governor down in Pago Pago we appreciate it but he doesn't have to go to any special effort. Over.
Yes. Well. I didn't read the last sentence here. It said. "Maybe there will be dancing girls there"; But now you know. And by the way, the unemployed local philosopher now says that...
Oh, well. If he wants to go to the special effort.
Yes, I thought you might change your mind. By the way, the unemployed local philosopher...
now says that due to your efforts, color television is now on its way back.
Roger. Give our best to the unemployed philosopher there. And that total situation down in Samoa sounds like it's - Is that going to be a top hat or topless type of affair? Over.
Just come as you are, Tom.
OK.
OK. Hey. Jack. You got our astrocast today?
Stand by. We'll see if we can get them.
And. Apollo 10. Houston. Looks like your TV lines will be ready from Goldstone at 146:47, 40 more minutes.
Roger. 146:47.
Hey. Jack, when we get back if we have time. I'd sure like to hear.
Sorry. You'll have to speak into the microphone. I didn't catch that.
Apollo 10. Houston. How do you read?
Roger. Houston. Reading you loud and clear. Over.
OK. I hear you the same. The afternoon television program has slipped to 147 hours, and if you want some TV attitudes and High Gain angles for subsequent television programs, why, I've got them here.
Roger, Jack. Actually, this PTC attitude we're in now, just as we can pan it when we slowly rotate. We can - in a period of time, we can get both the Earth and the Moon in right this attitude while we're still in PTC. But I don't know whether you can get High Gain lock. Over.
OK, 10. Houston. Looks like you could probably give us TV in the PTC mode with your High Gain at pitch, plus 30; and yaw, 270. Over.
Roger. Pitch, plus 30; and yaw, plus 270. Roger. In fact, why don't we go ahead and just - We'll make a try early and see if we can maintain High Gain lock. Over.
Roger.
And we'll do that later on. We're watching our voltages now. Houston, is Deke around there? Over.
Negative, Tom. He was in here earlier, and he'll be back.
OK. There's one thing that we wanted to put down as a flight change in procedure after we land. All three of us are still itching rather badly from all the fiberglass that we had in here from that insulation. I've got a little bit of rash on my hands. So, say, after the normal ceremonies on the carrier. I'm saying the first thing we're going to do is to take a shower and get rid of this fiberglass. Over.
Roger. We copy.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Go ahead, 10.
OK. Looking back over my records, the last two readings I gave you for the Chimp are wrong on the Rad readings. Wait a second. I'll be right back with you.
Jack, the up-to-date readings as of right now - If you want them, I'll give them to you.
Go ahead.
Okay, commander is 26043, the Chimp is 05043, and the Limp is 15044. And the last two or three readings on the Chimp; it's my fault, it may have been wrong. I just copied them wrong. But the incremental increase that you've seen on my Rad meter is typical of the increase in the other two right along.
Roger. Copy. Thank you.
And, Apollo 10, Houston. We'd like you to verify a switch. Please verify Glycol Evap Temp In switch in the Auto position. Over.
No. Jack. It's in Manual. Glycol Evap Temp In is in Manual.
OK, Gene. Let's put the Glycol Evap Temp In in Man - correction - in Auto. Over.
OK. It's in Auto. I'm not sure when it went to Manual, though.
Roger. Our data shows that it was probably in Manual, and you didn't verify it. It should be in Auto unless you've got a reason otherwise. Let us know.
No sir, Jack. It should have been in Auto. I guess maybe I hit it accidently or something, I don't know.
Apollo 10. Houston. When you have window number 5 looking at the Moon, then your High Gain Antenna angles will be pitch, minus 62; yaw, 266. Over.
OK. When we've got window 5, it'll be pitch, minus 62; and yaw, 266. Roger. Thank you. Jack.
And, by the way. Gene, your astrocast from your friendly communicator here says "Discussion fills much of the morning, and you'll learn a great deal that would never have come to your attention. That is, if you listen well."
That's right. I was going to have a briefing for him on the stars and planets today.
Yeah. And by the way. John, yours is "Keep your attention focused on your own affairs this Saturday. The necessary chores are quite enough for the time being, and leave all the frills for another time and place." Over.
I promise.
Hey, Jack, if you're wondering about me, babe, I can't come back with that one.
What have you got for the commander?
Oh, his isn't anything very exciting. This says here "Problems tend to get out of hand, and logic is not quite enough. There is nothing to do but ride it out with a certain amount of leniency." Sounds like the boss.
Hey, you guys are too much down there today. Over.
Apollo 10, Houston. If you want to acquire on the High Gain a little early, you could go to pitch, plus 30; and yaw, 270 right now. Over.
Pitch, plus 30; and yaw, 270. We'll wait a second, Jack. We're getting some chow here.
Houston, I just want to give you an informal report on the star visibility up here in the PTC REFSMMAT.
Roger. Go ahead
With the Sun, the Moon, and the Earth light shafting, even with that, we're able to - And we're pointed up to the north constellations and so we're looking out at about an angle of 35 degrees to the ecliptic pointed up. Was able to recognize the Big Bear and the Big Lion and, of course, Jupiter, Arcturus, Alphecca, and even old Rasalhague, and the Navigator's Triangle. And from then on, due to the Sun, things sort of get washed out, and they get washed out right on around until you pick up the Big Dipper again. But I'll tell you, that's the first time translunar and trans-Earth that I was ever able to recognize a constellation, and that is really encouraging.
OK. We understand you're able to recognize the Big Bear, the Big Lion, Arcturus. Rasalhague, and then you're washed out to the Big Dipper and your eyes are getting better. Over.
No. Through - past Rasalhague, clean through the first part of the Great Square, and then it blanks out due to the Sun shafting on the optics.
Roger.
If you got a star chart in front, of you, somebody can show you what I'm talking about. But I mean to tell you - There's a place in there, just about 180 out from the Sun, where it is exactly like night time. Just great. Every star is visible.
Roger. We copy, John.
And the - another thing about that thing, Jack, is the shafting that keeps you from recognizing the star patterns isn't all from the Sun. The Earth is, of course, pretty close by the Sun. and when it comes out, it wipes out your night vision, too.
Roger.
But the Moon - just for a very limited region around it, - oh, it looks like about 30 degrees - is all it hurts - 15 to 30. Pretty hard to get a correct handle on that number because it fades in and fades out.
Roger. How about around the Earth? How much does it wash out?
Well. like I say, from...
I was able to see Mars in the...
Actually, the Earth doesn't hurt you too bad. For example, I was able to see Altair.
Roger, John.
And. Apollo 10, Houston. I have a consumables update and a Flight Plan update when you're ready.
Houston, this is 10. How do you read? Over.
10, reading you loud and clear.
OK, Jack. Go ahead with your consumables update.
OK. Consumables at 147 hours; RCS total, 56 percent, 46, 63, 56, 59. That's 18 percent above the Flight Plan. H2 totals, 24.5; O2, 336. Over.
I got it all, Jack, and go ahead with the Flight Plan update.
OK. Flight Plan update at 151 plus 30, delete all reference to midcourse correction 5. And at 152 hours, we want a wat - a waste-water dump. Over.
OK. There will be no MCC 5, and at 152, you want a waste-water dump.
That's at 152 hours, waste-water dump.
OK. Got all that.
And, Gene, I've got a lot more data on High Gain Antenna angles for lockup at different attitudes it - if and when you want them. Over.
OK, Jack. Why don't you give them to me now?
OK. When you're in the PTC mode at a roll angle of 335 degrees, your left-hand window will be pointing at the Earth, and at roll 065, your right-hand window will be pointing at the Moon. At a roll degree - an angle of 318 degrees, you should be able to get lock with a pitch of plus 44 and a yaw of 272.
Hold it, Jack. OK. Hold it, Jack. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Go. Hit me again with all of that, a little slower.
OK. When your roll angle reaches 318 degrees, your High Gain Antenna pitch should be plus 44 and your yaw should be 272. Over.
OK. You say when our roll is 335 we ought to have the left-hand - the Earth out the left-hand window, and when it's 065, we ought to have the Moon out the right-hand window.
That's affirmative.
And when the roll is 318, the pitch for High Gain is plus 44 and yaw is 272. Do you want me to set this High Gain on a Reacq mode?
That's affirmative, Gene. Once you acquire lock, let's go Reacq.
OK. Fine. I'll try to acquire it this next time around.
Hey, Jack, what are my Reacq angles going to be? Or do you want me to just read them off the meter and set them up when we lose this lock?
And. Apollo 10, Houston. On the High Gain angles, set them up at pitch, plus 30; and yaw, 270. And then she'll roll in and then lock in the Earth. Over.
Jack. I haven't been reading you at all but we got High Gain lock now. So my question was what's my Reacq angles?
OK, Gene-o. They're plus 30 and 270. Over.
Plus 30 and 270. Thank you.
And we've got High Gain lock.
OK. Great, Jack.
Apollo 10, Houston. We're ready with the P27 update when we can have the computer. Over.
You've got Accept.
Roger, thank you.
Apollo 10, Houston. We're finished with your computer. You can Block.
Roger.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Over.
Good morning, Bruce. How are you this morning?
Good morning. I'm fine. We would like to verify that you are in Manual at the present time on the High Gain Antenna. And then at 4 minutes after the hour GET, go to Automatic. Over.
OK. I'm in Reacq now. You say you want me to go to Manual?
Roger. Go to Manual now, and then in about a minute, or a minute and a half, go to Automatic and you should reacquire.
OK.
10, this is Houston, we've got a High Gain lock now.
Roger, Bruce. How far away - How far are we out now?
184,000 nautical miles. Over.
Wow.
And range is decreasing.
The Earth and the Moon are about the same.
Roger.
There's an encouraging sign.
10. Houston. For your information, you will cross the equipotential point between the Earth and the Moon at GET 148:39, and that point is 179,525 miles out from the Earth. Over.
Roger. Is that about where the computer switches over?
Roger. It's very close. Over.
You know, but it's of academic interest, isn't it?
Roger.
Bruce, how soon are you going to be ready for the TV?
It's going to be about 5 minutes yet. 10. Over.
OK. Fine. It'll take us that long to get it all set up.
Roger. Out.
And, Bruce, would you check and find out what our hydrogen potential is down there in terms of tank loss and also in terms of our purge capability for fuel cell 1?
OK. Stand by and we'll get that for you.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead. Jack - or Bruce.
Roger. With the hydrogen that you currently have available in both tanks, you have a 20 - that is, a 20-hour continuous hydrogen purge capability, which you can split up among the fuel cells any way you like. If you lose one tank and power down to 50 amps - 50 amps, you can get by until 225 hours GET or a little over 30 hours after anticipated splashdown. Over.
That's great, Bruce. Thank you very much.
Looks like you are in good shape.
Bruce. I am a little bit confused on how you want me to handle the High Gain now. I am in Auto. Do you want me to go to Reacq? And are you switching back to Omni D? How do you want us to handle this High Gain for TV?
Stand by.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. I've got your antenna OPS plan here.
Roger. Stand by.
Are you ready for the TV?
Roger. We're ready.
Hello, Houston. This is Apollo 10. 184,000 miles from Earth. You got a picture yet?
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Roger. We are not receiving the picture yet. I'll give you a Mark when it starts coming in here.
OK. We're sending.
10. this is Houston. It looks like we're going to lose your High Gain Antenna in about 30 seconds. Suggest you wait until we reacquire the next rotation on the High Gain. Over.
Roger.
OK. Will you give us a Mark when that will be and - Go ahead. Are those Reacq angles still good?
Roger. What we would like you to do is, we'll command Omni Delta when we start losing signal strength there. And then you should go Manual on the High Gain Antenna. We'll give you a Mark when to go back to Automatic. And we'll switch you back in to High Gain. This will eliminate any LOS. If you stayed in automatic Reacq, we'd have LOS about 36 percent of the time. You're not in close enough yet, though. so that we can get TV on the Omni. Over.
OK. Great. That sounds great. Bruce.
And I will give you a call when to go back into Auto and try to give you a couple of minutes warning tor the TV. I think it's better this way than it you start out and run on TV for a minute or so then have to break it up and start again.
Agree.
Houston, do we have High Gain right now?
Negative, 10.
10, this is Houston. You should be in Manual at the present time on High Gain Antenna.
Roger. I am, Jack; I'm waiting for your Mark until we acquire High Gain again.
Roger.
Apollo 10, this is Houston.
Go, Bruce.
Roger. At 147:23 GET, we would like you to go to Auto on the High Gain Antenna. We'll expect acquisition almost immediately. You will be in AOS with the High Gain for about 11 minutes. Over.
Oh, that's great. Thank you.
Bruce, what we ought to be able to do is pick up the Earth out of Tom's window this pass and pick up the Moon out of my right-hand window at the end of the pass.
Roger. Understand. The Earth out or the left-hand window at the beginning, and the Moon out of the right-hand at the end.
Let me know when you are going to relatch the High Gain switch.
You're getting very noisy now. Say again?
Roger. Do you have a picture?
Not yet. We've got to get you on High Gain first.
Roger.
Hey, We got a picture.
Roger.
Houston, this is Apollo 10, 184,000 miles out. This is the Earth, half-Earth. It's about - the Moon right now. We have practically a full Moon. The Earth, as you can see it right now, is - The terminator is going right across the middle or the Atlantic. You see that big circular weather belt that goes up across the United - up across the east coast of the United States, covers up Florida, and it appears that some sort or point is in the Gulf of Mexico between Florida and Texas. It's difficult to make out any land masses and I doubt that you could see any, but with the monocular, I can see Cuba, Haiti, and the Indies, and most of South America which is cloud cover. The central United States appears to be open, as well as the western United States, as far as I can see. The orientation that our spacecraft is in is at about 90 degrees to our plane of travel. We are pointed up with our axis - I mean propulsion system axis up at the north star, so that we're in a rotation called a Passive Thermal Control mode. We rotate 360 degrees at the rate of three-tenths of a degree per second. And what that means is that first, starting with our right window, passing through the hatch window, and going through the left window, and then passing out through the optics, we have the full northern - northern solar, Earth, Moon plane.
OK, 10. We've got the Moon now. It's coming in nicely.
Roger. That's the same zoom that you had when you were looking at the Earth, and you can see the apparent size relationship of the two bodies right now.
Well, we have a three-quarter Moon. I take it all back.
Actually, on the monitor down here, 10, the Moon appears to be a little larger in diameter yet than the Earth.
That's, what I said. It's about twice the apparent diameter to me. And it sort of looks tan still to us. You can see the Sea of Crises very plainly, all the great seas, Serenity. And you notice the crater structure very clearly with those rough craters down in the southern - southern lunar hemisphere.
Roger. We can pick them out on our monitor.
How does your color look down there?
The black and white is very clear, 10. The color looks like it's saturating a little bit on the Moon.
It's ok up here. Roger.
The Moon is a - The Moon is a very bright body from here. When looking at the Moon through the optical system in our spacecraft, within about 15 degrees or so of the Moon, the stars are blanked out so that you can't tell what constellations right now - if you were looking this way in the optics. We're behind the Moon. Our window system on the vehicle right now is in excellent condition. We can see just as clearly as anyone could ask for, on all five windows.
OK. In about an hour and 10 minutes, we'll be passing from the gravitational potential field of the Moon into the gravitational potential field of the Earth. So you can see, even though the Moon's apparent diameter is larger, the gravitational attraction of the Earth right now is gonna - is just about to take command.
We've noticed in the TV monitor that the Moon has several, egg-shaped bumps, and if you're seeing those on your screen, they're not real.
There's a few.
Around the edges.
This is Houston. Roger. We noticed some, I guess they're characteristic of this particular TV camera you're flying - this unit.
OK. Houston. You can watch the Moon pass behind the right hand window of the spacecraft. It's rotating around, and then it will be - You'll probably be able to pick it up through the hatch window. See. It's going behind the window frame right now.
Roger. Amazing.
That shows what our rotation rate is, basically.
Roger, 10. We've been timing you down here. It looks like about three revolutions per hour.
OK. Now we're looking at the Moon out through the center hatch window. This mode of operation for finding out where you are with relationship to the rest of the world, for aligning your platform, for knowing your relationship with your velocity vector, and having a very essential psychological feel for what's going on is excellent. With this kind of an operation, we always know where we are and where we're going; and even more important, we know where to go to look for the stars which we use to align our platform. And that's necessary for us to perform all our navigational maneuvers and corrections. But right now, we are set up on a trajectory which is so good that most of our navigational corrections are really going to be very small, it appears.
I'm afraid that we're probably going to be seeing more of the Moon, as we come back, than the Earth, because we don't really have, right now, the ability to maintain High Gain lock when the Earth is in the right - is in the right and center hatch windows. So, we are probably going to be showing you the Earth only out of the left-hand window.
This is Houston. Roger. Out.
Going behind the center hatch window now.
10. this is Houston. We've got about 1 more minute until we lose you on the High Gain.
Roger. Well, I think that shows what we mean by where we are and what the relationship of the Moon/Earth system is right now and where we are in respect to it.
10, this is Houston. We...
How did the color resolution look, Bruce?
Stand by a minute. The...
Roger.
The large screen here was saturating, but we've got another monitor in the back, and the comments were that it was excellent.
Roger. There's a great big - a great big swirl right over the - light over the point south of Florida, goes up through the eastern states. That was clearly visible on the - at least through the - in the monitor up here. So, you'll probably be able to see it down there, and, also, another swirl; it looked like it was up north, somewhere, possibly as far north as the Canadian border there, coming down to sort of join them together. Couple of very interesting weather pattern.
Roger. We were able to see the cloud patterns, very clearly here, on the black and white monitor; and I understand, from people who were watching the smaller color monitors, that the color was excellent. Over.
Roger. Well, or course. I didn't expect you were seeing any more than we were on our monitor; and you couldn't - couldn't recognize any land masses to speak of or any - possibly you could see South America, down there in the south, under that big bank of cloud cover, because that's the only thing that I could really pick out with my naked eye.
Yes. The Earth today is just a white and blue planet.
Roger. 10. We couldn't make out any of the land masses down here, either. Even on the color monitor. But that circular area or clouds did stand out very clearly. We were able to locate the areas you were describing.
OK. Houston. I guess we will terminate. We just wanted to give you a feel for this spectacular picture. As we get a little closer to the Earth. I think it will be worth trying again. Probably we could maintain better look - have better Earth-viewing if we stopped the PTC or rotated in the other direction, probably.
Roger. We appreciate all the viewing we can get, though.
OK. I guess I feel if we rotate the PTC in the other direction, we can pick up the Earth and maintain High Gain lock, and that's going to be the plan of interest from now on, as far as we're concerned.
OK. Let us kick that around down here, and we'll be back with you.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. We'd like you to go to Manual now on the High Gain Antenna, until it slews into position, and then to Reacq. Over.
OK.
Houston. Roger. Out.
Houston, this is Apollo 10. Over.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. What we're doing now is in a temporary hold here for stowage and securing. I think we are ending up bringing back more than we took.
Roger. We'll be asking you some questions about your stowage in a few minutes. We were getting organized to run through the LCL here with you. Over.
Roger. Furthermore, it is quite clear to me that it you pack up a food bag, when you open it up and eat the food out of it, you've still got more stuff to dispose of than you started with.
Roger. The surgeons are...
I guess what I'm saying is right now...
The surgeons are wondering if you have negative intake, or something.
No. We're eating. What I - what I wonder is how we're going to get 15 pounds in a 10-pound sack?
In scientific terms, Bruce, that is known as a "blivet". Over.
Houston. Roger. Out.
Hello, Apollo 10. Houston. Over.
Hello, Charlie. How are you?
Pretty good, Gene. How are you guys getting along this afternoon?
Pretty good.
Yes. Sounds good. Hey, we got a couple of items for you. If you'll break out your LCL recovery checklist, I'd like to go down where you've got the items returned and the stowage location, just by item number. Over.
Yeah, Charlie. But we're not quite ready to do that yet. Can you hold on? It may be a couple of hours.
Roger. We'll hold off until tomorrow. Whenever you get ready, we're standing by, RETRO is interested. Also, the people in the back room have been working for 3 days on the water bag, and we got a procedure for you that has been refined on separating out the bubble, if you want a lot of exercise. Over.
Go ahead with your procedure there. Over.
Well, good. I didn't know whether you wanted that or not. First off, it's quite lengthy. It's a full page. I'll try to go through it slowly, and we can talk it through and then ask some questions. First off, fill the entire bag, both top compartment and bottom compartment, about half-full of water. Then, work the water and the gas to the lower compartment by either spinning it or just kneading it down. Then, after you get it all in the bottom, spin it up and then let it come to rest slowly; and if the ga - if possible, then squeeze the gas - if you have any gas in the upper compartment squeeze the gas out of the upper compartment. Now, if the bubble is present in the lower compartment and top compartment is empty, add some more water to the approximate size of the bubble. Then, you want to spin it up again as in step - well, as in step 3. Now, after you spin it up again, you should have gas in the top, or partially gas in the top, and gas and water in the bottom; and repeat the procedure. Add more water to the approximate bubble size and spin it again. And by the time you get finished, you should have all of the gas in the top and - compartment, that is, and then the bottom compartment should he just about full of water. Now, if you fill it too full, so you got the bottom full of water and the top full of water - partially full of water, then the only way you can get that bubble out of there then is to squeeze out the bubble and the water in the top compartment. The object is to get the bottom compartment completely full of water and the gas in the top compartment, and then you can vent it off by pinching off the lower compartment. And if you - If that sounds reasonable to you guys, you can try it. It's going to take a lot of spinning, but that's what they recommend in the back room after three days. Over.
Hey, Charlie. With all due respect, would you play back Glynn's tape recorder there on his desk and listen yourself, and then give us a call?
OK. I guess you couldn't understand that.
No. We understood it.
(Laughing) I told you - I told you might not want this.
Listen, babe, I'm glad that's all we got to worry about at the moment.
Me, too, Gene-o. We had this thing here, and if - That was the only recommendations we could come up with, and as I said, if you wanted lots of exercise you could do it, but if not - You know the general principle of the thing and it's your druthers. Adios.
We appreciate the homework that was done on it. Here we are with this thing, Charlie. Now, what do we do with that bag that's down in the bottom? I mean that bubble that's in the bottom?
Have you got all the water out of the top?
Yes sir.
OK. Is the bottom part...
I got all the water in the bottom and...
I understand, you got all the water in the bottom. Now is the bottom compartment completely full of water?
Yes sir. Yeah.
And it's still got a bubble in it, right?
Yes. It's still got a bubble in it.
OK. Then it's not completely full of water, and what you want to do is add some more water and spin it again.
That's in work.
Hey, Apollo 10. Houston. You still swinging the bag?
Stand by, Charlie. Over.
Houston, this is 10. Over.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. I've got the bag - the bottom half of the bag full of water, and there's some - a little water in the top of the bag. But every time I rotate and rotate and rotate, no matter by how much I rotate, that water in the top won't go down in the bottom, and that bubble in the bottom won't come up to the top.
Stand by. I'll put the bagman on.
This is your bagman. I think we ought to...
Go ahead, 10.
Go ahead, Charles.
I think I've said enough today about that water bag. I think we ought to forget the whole thing.
Well, you know this doggone water and these bubbles, they stick to each other, or something! I get the feeling that is what is going on in there.
(Laughing) I think you're right, John. They tried - We tried it out in the back room there, in good old one-g, and if the thing won't work, fine. I apologize profusely for that procedure, and we - I think we ought to just forget it. Over.
It's no problem.
OK. Fine. That's really...
Look, we'd try it...
Go ahead.
We'd try it. If it would work, we'd sure use it, I think. And we tried it; but like I say, we got a problem here with a bubble that's still down in the bottom, and the water being on the top. The two are just not going to mix.
Roger. Like I was saying, I think if you'd really rotate it for quite a while, the stuff would finally, eventually work its way down, but it takes a lot of exercise. At least it did down here in the backroom, and I don't really think it's - it's up to you guys if you want to continue to spin it. You've got the basic procedure down, and we'd better be quiet, Over.
All I can - All I can think of when I look at this bag is: Is this what's going on in my stomach with these bubbles and this air? Because if it is, that stuff is just sitting in there floating.
Roger.
It won't go to the top, and it won't go to the bottom.
Roger. It sounds like we've got a little problem there. Hey, I'd like to change the subject to talk about the LM cameras. We recommend wrapping up both cameras individually and putting them in compartment A5. That's the Hasselblad and the sequence.
Roger.
And, for the ECS canister, we recommend you roll it up in any kind of a plastic material that you can get hold of to prevent it from, a term they call 'breathing' all over everything, and I guess that's just seeping out. And after you've done that you can - Recommend you roll the canister up in the third sleeping bag. And that's the one without the fittings on the end, and then stow it in food compartment L3. And the helmet that should have gone in L3, stow it on a suit, and put that under the left sleep restraint - correction - stow it in the left-hand sleep restraint, and stow with the helmet in towards the hatch. Over.
With the helmet in towards the hatch. Roger.
OK. That's all we got.
Charlie, did you want the - Roger. We'll do that the final day. We were using these sleeping bags; they are really great at night. And you wanted to leave the suit in that restraint bag in its position. Over.
That's affirmative. Leave the - as it read here in the procedure: stow helmet, planned to be stowed in L3, on the suit, and the suit to be stowed in the left-hand sleep restraint attached to normal-use fittings. And stow the helmet end of the suit towards the hatch. Over.
Understand.
10, Houston. Just talking to the surgeon, and the concern with the canister is that the lithium hydroxide getting out into the cabin; so if you haven't already done so, we recommend you wrap the canister in some plastic material and tape it up. Over.
Do you - Got any idea where we get this plastic material?
Roger. We recommend food bags or fecal bags and tape as required. Over.
OK.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10. Over.
Go ahead, Apollo 10.
Roger, Bruce. Is Charlie there? I want to talk to him for just a minute. Over.
Yes, indeed.
Go ahead, Tom.
Hey, Charlie. Right. I just wanted to - Before I get my chance to settle down, I just want to amplify one thing that happened back there in staging on Snoopy. You were right on that switch position, but you know on a three-position switch, we finally figured it out later on, up around CSI. We went through the procedures okay, but I was floating up a little bit and had one restraint harness down. You know how you can look in the simulator if you're in different positions and how the switch positions look in different positions? Over.
Rog.
OK. Well, I put my finger on the switch and I was floating up a little bit and looked down, and it looked like it was in Att Hold, but if you stretched down a little bit you'd see it - It turned out it was in the other position. Anyway, as soon as it happened, we caught it and real fast it went into gimbal lock and got all squared away for the burn within about 30 seconds. So you might pass that on down to Chris and Deke. And we went through the procedure as outlined, and my finger was on the switch and everything, but just - In fact, you know, like in the Command Module, you look at the Att-1, Rate 2 switch and from where you're sitting, it could be either in Rate 2 or Att 1, Rate 2. Over.
Roger. We copy, Tom. We thought - There was a great recovery, and we'll pass this on. Over.
Yeah. Roger. Our procedures were right, and we were - In the LM, with those hoses, you ride a little high, and I was held down with one restraint harness at the time. So I was kinda like on my tiptoes, and I looked down and put my finger on the switch, and the line was lined up with Att Hold. If you'd actually get down lower, you know quite a bit lower, you'll see that it is lined up there. And normally on three-position switches, you dont flip them back and forth all the way to justify the position. Over.
Roger, Tom. Copy that. It's - I know it is real easy to do, and we'll pass this on. And, just - it was - All you can add is it was just a great recovery. So everything was - came out real great. You guys did a great job. Over.
Roger. Thank you, Charlie. Yeah. We were like Speedy Gonzales there. We were squared away in attitude and - real fast, and then made a pitch input avoid the red cherry, and bang! We were over in the attitude back again in about 30 seconds, 40 seconds, and all set to go. Over.
Roger.
Like in here, right now. It looks like the BMAGs are uncaged, but they are in fact caged. It's just the way those switches look.
Roger. We copy. We figured something like that had happened.
Charlie, things were getting...
I was just going to say, we figured something like that was going to happen. Go ahead, Gene. I'm cutting you out. Excuse me.
That's all right. Things were getting a little slow at that point, anyway. We thought we'd add to the excitement.
They really added to it, I'll tell you that.
Charlie, this is Tom again. I want to say - Roger. Sorry about cutting you out, but I just wanted to say again, we thought you did a great job on CapCom and all of the support people getting the PADs up to both spacecraft and coordinated. I know that you're like the left-handed paperhanger and everything else, but it really worked out smooth that day and I think we really tested the total system. Over.
Thanks, Tom.
It's really beautiful.
OK. Thanks gobs, you guys. I know that we had a lot of good guys in the room here looking at it that day, and it was a great team effort all the way around. You guys did a great job, and we're just real pleased to be part of the flight. It was really a great day last Thursday.
Yeah. What I appreciate was that quick recovery from that state vector. They zapped me a new one like nothing flat. That's beautiful.
The Trench is all listening. We'll pass it on to the guys, and I agree with you. Those guys were really on top of everything throughout the whole day.
Charlie, another thing about the LM. We'll discuss it, of course at length, but you know that S-band antenna worked far, far better, than I ever thought it would. And I think it worked far better than a lot of people thought it would.
We were certainly pleased with the operation of the steerable. The comm was really fantastic. Our only bad pass was during phasing and we, of course, are disappointed in that pass of Comm. I've heard something that we might have had a side-lobe lock-on there, but it's not been confirmed yet. We were disappointed with the Omnis a little bit, but not too much.
The capability of the High Gain to lock on and go to Auto Track with a fairly decent signal was great. That was just tremendous.
Well, it looks like old Snoop performed in a great style throughout the whole day. Over.
How's he doing now? Is he still on his way?
Last we saw of him he was on his way toward the Sun, but we lost him at about 121 hours or thereabouts. He was still perking along.
Well, we got an American flag, and every state in the Union has got a flag in Snoop going around the Sun.
That's great news, 10. Just went by to visit the gals, and everybody's in great shape on the home front. Over.
Very good. Thank you.
10, Houston. If you got a couple of more minutes to talk, the back room would like to know - They've got some questions for you, so they can get one leg up on LM-5. The first one concerns on the operational - operation of the LM steerable antenna during the phasing burn pass. It has three parts to it. I'll ask the first part. What were the circumstances surrounding loss of S-band steerable from AOS to the phasing burn on Rev-13? Over.
Charlie, I don't know what the circumstances were, but we had good lock when we came on down and - good S-band lock - and I could hear. You can hear that S-band tracking because of the noise it makes, and I heard it tracking. And then I got somewhere down in there in the process of our comments and photography work and what have you, I heard us losing lock and I went down there to look at it and then I tried to tune it up - went to Manual, tried to tune it up and the fact is - I'm not sure whether we had the capability to call Verb 64, but I played with it a little bit there for a minute or so. I couldn't do that. I went to Omni's so that we at least would have voice with you, and then I guess it was after the phasing pass when I had a breather. Then I went back and we called up Verb 64 and I got High Gain lock again, and that's really all I can tell you.
That's fine, Gene. Second part of the question was: what was your procedure when the antenna went into the stops and the circuit breaker popped? Over.
Well, when it inadvertently went into stops, I put it at pitch 90, yaw 0, pushed in the circuit breaker and it popped right around to 90 and 0, and we started over again. That happened about three times. I think once during a P52 - twice during a P52 - and one other time. that it stopped one time when it shouldn't have.
Roger. We copy. One further question on the antenna. When did you switch to the Auto mode? Was it within about 1 minute after AOS on that phasing burn pass? Over.
the horn, and procedurally, you know I came on in Omnis and I heard John give you a Go for DOI and then I gave you the DOI burn report and it was after that that we went to High Gain lock.
Roger...
So you know we had a good High Gain lock there. We had a good High Gain lock there for a while. I believe you were getting high bit rate data.
That's affirmative, I'm pretty sure we were. The TELCOM's not here now, of course, but we can run that by them. Im pretty sure, if I recall the circumstances, we had high bit rate during the early part of that phasing pass. I know because - well, I know we did because we got you a state vector and then I read - correction - that was the rev before. But, anyway, I can remember seeing some high bit rate data and then at some time we lost it and I don't know why. That about exhausts our knowledge on that question. The other one was the two-part question on the drinking water. Was the gas noted in the LM water only during the initial use of the system? Over.
It was initially when I first went in on the first day. There's no question about it. It got less and less, but I think even after we egressed we took some big gulps of water and there was still some bubbles in it.
Roger. We copy. Second part: was any gas noted in the Command Module potable tank prior to diverting fuel cell water into the potable tank? Over.
Charlie, did you read that?
Gene, I must have cut you out. I was asking B part, on the LM water - correction - on the Command Module potable water. Was any gas noted in the Command Module potable water prior to diverting fuel cell water into the potable tank? Over.
Roger, Charlie. That was - In fact, when we started to take our first drink of the water that had been serviced at the Cape it was as bad as it's been ever since. In fact, it might have been worse on the first day. So the first servicing that they gave it at the Cape probably did not have deaerated water or was not deaerated properly because - the fact there was tremendous amounts of air in that water when we first started to drink it after TLI. Over.
Roger. We copy, 10. Final question that's written down here was on the VHF Simplex A. Did Simplex A come on immediately upon switching from Simplex B to Simplex A when you rechecked behind the Moon on the twelfth rev? Over.
That's affirm...
Sure did.
That's affirm, Charlie. And as soon as we got Simplex A, we went ahead and tried the LM Duplex A, Command Module Duplex B capability from the LM, not in the voice range, there, but just the voice to make sure we could use that Duplex mode for the ranging capability; and that also worked.
Fine. Great show. I don't understand what was wrong with it when we first tried to check it, but we're sure happy that it fixed itself because the ranging really looked like it worked like a champ during the whole rendezvous. I've got a question. What exactly - had the AGS started you off in attitude before you staged, or as you staged, or right before you staged? Over.
OK. You know our procedure. I throw the staging switch after Gene thrusts the P47 and Gene thrusts forward 2 feet per second. As soon as he starts - starts 2 feet per second. Then just as he starts forward, I throw the switch. OK. What happened: it started to go off a little bit as we started aft, and then as he started, forward and I threw the switch we got on the ascent stage, it just took off. And then that's when I grabbed the hand controller and avoided the gimbal lock and got squared away. But it was just - you know the LM is actually - It has sharper maneuvers than the simulator. We noticed that right away, so the basic deviation that it started in didn't alarm us too match, just when it started wiggling a little bit. We thought that this might happen. Right, right. It was that the whole mass of that descent stage, it started off a little bit. But it was so slow we didn't notice that we wanted to staging when we staged and went to the ascent stage, it really went bang in a hurry. Over.
OK, Tom. Thanks a bunch. It was really a fill in for just me, and also FIDO was curious as to what kind of Delta-V we gave to the descent stage when we separated, and that clears that point up. That's all we got for you for right now. If you guys can think of anything else that you'd like to pass on that we could get a leg up on, we'd appreciate it. Over.
OK, Charlie. I've got one. It was the same squawk that was noted on Gemini 9 - pardon me - I mean Apollo 9; that kind of dates me doesn't it. On the LM on the rate error needles - You know they squawked at - When the rate error needles were zero, actually you had some rates. Well, we tried to get that calibrated, you know, in the testing there at KSC. When I got in flight, I found that's why I used a little more fuel, particularly during the landing radar test. I pulsed the error needles into zero but on half rates. Right at the last, we calibrated them before docking, and when the spacecraft had zero rates, my yaw rate error needle was about three-tenths of a degree to the right. I'd estimate the pitch was two-tenths down, and the roll was about two tenths. So when I came down for the landing radar pass - and I don't know if you can see my DSKY on Verb 83 - I was trying to pulse it and hold it just as close as I could to take some pictures. I'd zero the needles, but they would start to go off right away. Then I'd have to get back on it. But that is one thing that definitely needs to be corrected and, again, the main thing that costs you is fuel. Over.
Roger. We got that. Thank you much, Tom. I was always under the impression that those needles were supposed to - should have been zero except when power off, but it looks like we had problems just like, as you say, just like 9 did. By the way the - I don't know whether you've heard, but the landing radar appears to have worked like a champ. We had - As far as I can tell, we still had indications of lock-on at about 68,000 feet. Over.
Right. And a good show. You know, we had some time there, so what I did was turn the radar on early and pick up that attitude. And as soon as I pitch down, boom, I could see the tape meter started to drive and also the velocity started to go the other - Well, of course the velocity didn't lock on until later, but right away it looked like we had altitude lock-on way, way higher than we expected. Over.
Rog. Thank you much, 10. That's all we have for you right now. Out.
Charlie, I've got another thing on the S-band - the LM S-band signal strength. It appeared that any time you call up the angles - and all the angles that we had preprogramed in the Flight Plan and the Verb 64s were excellent, but it appears that anywhere between 34 and 36 if you got that kind of signal strength and went to Auto, she'd acquire and pop right up to about 43 or 44 on the signal strength meter. But even better than that, if you call up the angles and you could tune it in manually very easy from that 34, 36 well into the 40 region and then, of course, go to Auto popped up to about 43. So that was very encouraging, also. One other question that puzzles me. I updated the AGS, prior to undocking, with the PNGS, and I could never get the theta out of Address 304 in the AGS to agree with Verb 83 as a check on the update. I then updated the AGS two more times before we undocked, and it still disagreed by some 20 to 30 degrees. As soon as we undocked, I checked those angles again and, by golly, they were perfect. And the AGS held a good update for a long time, so I don't understand what the problem was prior to undocking.
Roger. We haven't found the answer to that one, Gene. You passed that on to us right at, as you came around AOS, and we've been working on it, but we haven't heard the answer for - on that one. We're still working that one. Over.
OK. And in the lunar environment, never once did 407 go to 10000. It stayed zeros all the time, which was expected, but contrary to Earth orbit environment.
Roger. That's good news. Thank you much.
One more pair of until you kick off.
Good.
I'll get them if they're here. Did they want us to wrap something up? Anything else we'll be needing?
John, you got the tool again, babe? Did I give you back that tool?
No, you didn't.
Where did you put it?
Are we still in PTC? Huh? John. I noticed that DSKY doesn't have those numbers on it. Huh? Oh, they gave us an update which wiped out the numbers. I got you.
I I verified that.
Well, where?
I don't know. look in here, too.
Hey, while you're there; let's fit our - let's - You want to put our gloves in those suits? Let's put our gloves in the suits. Here's your - here's your tool E, John. I'll - I'll go...
That's a great idea, Tom. Why didn't you think about that about 2 minutes ago?
Isn't that a panoramic view with that music playing?
The world and the Moon are going around, minute by minute. Stay with it, spacecraft, for 2 more days.
Did I give the - Another glove go floating by there?
Yes.
out.
Where is the music - I want to - have Charlie describe it to us. Where's the tape recorder?
On the second one over.
No - no, I just didn't play that.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10.
Hold your mike down a little bit.
Is it on?
Yes..
Play that song over again, though, when you get to it. Zap it up a little bit.
Well, why, don't you get it reset, and then...
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Did you call?
Darn. This thing just doesn't want to move off 90 degrees, does it?
You got my glove there, babe?
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Did you call?
I couldn't find them.
No.
Hey, let's put this in the purse. Let's keep all the LM - liberation stuff...
Alright.
together.
You want to dump those batteries in that - you got a place for them?
those batteries I didn't use those.
I'll put my gloves on it, babe.
gloves.
You're - Let's see. Here's yours - let's put...
But mine are - mine are in there deeper. Here's - here's mine.
OK.
It's not the batteries. It's the damn tape.
Oh, shit.
That's alright. It'll play. rewind.
Yes. Fine. Just stick it in. It working?
Yes.
It'll work. The rewind don't want to work, though.
have any problems.
I don't know what you're doing.
I think it's from the LM.
Call up Verb 64; you can't do that. Here we go - here it goes.
Okay, get the tape all.
You can't call up Verb 64, can you?
Huh?
I wouldn't - Yes. - think theoretically you can. Just like we called up some - other stuff that one time, and...
Look at the side.
Huh?
Look at that!
Whose suit's that? That Gene-o's?
Blow.
No. (Blowing) Now I do. Try it. You - you hear me?
I don't hear you.
You hear me?
I hear you, Gene-o.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Over.
Roger, Houston. Apollo 10.
Roger, 10. We lost contact with you there for a few minutes. Did you all go to Command Reset or otherwise change your Comm mode?
No, Bruce. I saw the S-band hunting around, and then I went to Manual to get a hard lock. And we're in okay and back in Reacq, but I don't know where it was. Just hunting around and didn't want to get a signal for you.
Alright.
How does it work?
Beautiful. ask him if he reads you?
Here you go.
OK.
Roger, 10. At that time, we had selected Omni Delta and, as the system is explained to me, the should not have been going to any particular position but it won't hurt itself. When we got ready to lose signal strength on Delta we would have ground commanded back to the High Gain Antenna, and it should then reacquire. Over.
OK. We didn't do anything up here.
OK.
Sure you did.
What are you doing?
You - you talk to them. I.
Hello, Apollo 10. Houston. Gene, we've got some preliminary word on that local vertical problem for you. The GUIDO's have been - Stand by one.
OK. Go ahead.
I'll tell him.
OK, go ahead. We'll wait until...
Hey, we - The GUIDOs would like me to wait a couple of minutes until they get their story confirmed by MIT before we pass it up to you. We'll give it to you in a little while. Over.
OK. Over.
Are you ready? Got the music?
Go.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10.
Turn it on so he can hear it when I'm talking to him.
Go ahead, 10.
Roger. Just wanted to describe kind of the total situation here internal. We've got all the spacecraft restowed. Got the music playing, got a beautiful view out here as we rotate around slowly. We've got the Moon in one window and the Earth in the other window. We got it worked out where no thrusters are firing and we just feel in great shape. Over.
That sounds like you have a better view than the one from the top of the Astroneedle.
Right. Did you hear the music? Over.
Yes, indeed. Actually our facilities down here for playing music in the MOCR are a little limited so you're about our only source of music.
Turn it on.
(Music) OK. We'll key a little bit in.
Houston, Apollo 10. Over.
Roger, Apollo 10. This is Houston. Send your message.
All right. Roger. We've got a little coat of moisture all over the upper hatch, and it's fanning out - oh, small bubbles in 1/8 to 3/16 in diameter, very flat against the whole underside of the hatch. And we've been wiping it down at intervals. And the temperature in the tunnel is 20 degrees cooler. And it's very nice.
Roger. We copy. How is the overall cabin temperature?
That's very nice, too.
OK.
This is WAP 10, broadcasting from the strongest station in the world from 200,000 miles out, saying hello to our favorite Flight Director and to one of the most outstanding teams in the world that we've ever been associated with. If you have any request, just give us a call. This is Tom, John, and Gene with your morning music.
Oh! Roger to Tom, John, and Gene show. I don't know where you guys get this morning music bit though. I guess it's morning for you all.
Isn't it 6 o'clock in the morning? I have 10 after 6. Is that...
Would you believe...
Is that a.m. or p.m.?
Would you believe it's p.m. down here?
OK. This is Tom, John, and Gene evening show.
Roger. Out.
That's not bad, 200,000 miles for a volt and a half.
Right. That's very good. You certainly...
We can't handle all requests because our...
You certainly got the...
Our library is limited however, so we - I want to say we can't handle all requests because our library is somewhat limited, but we'll do our best when the occasion arises. Over.
Roger. You certainly got the highest antenna around. Over.
Houston, Apollo 10. Did you give us something specific to wrap in the LCG?
Roger. We were looking for the - Stand by.
10, this is Houston. Negative. We have nothing specific to be wrapped in the LCG with reference to the Hasselblad and the sequence camera. We ask you to put them temporarily in compartment Foxtrot 1 and Foxtrot 2, and after removal of the unsuited reentry provisions, to wrap individually those cameras in available garments and store them in compartment Alpha 5. Over.
Roger.
Here, T.P.; we'll take some internal movies.
Yes. Hey, that spotmeter is a good idea, babe.
Is there any Velcro on that spotmeter?
There wasn't much.
OK, here's -.
Use a lot?
Yes.
Houston, Apollo 10. Over.
Go ahead, Apollo 10.
Roger. I'm looking a little ahead in the Flight Plan to these star lunar landmark sightings, and I'm wondering what kind of W-matrix you want in there before we start that.
Stand by.
Is this the same W-matrix data for the set of P23 No Comm cases around about that time?
Stand by a minute, please.
10, this is Houston. On page G 1-72 in the checklist, we've got the W-matrix that they're looking for. Over. That's in the CMP section. You copy?
Can't you...
Roger.
Houston. Roger. Out.
Be better if you were laying on the couch.
Why don't you lay on the couch? I think we'll take some time exposures.
There you go.
Hold the stuff still; it will be a l-second exposure. Alright.
OK.
John, get over there by Gene-o. I'll get back here as far as I can - Yes, you two get over there as far as you can. Ready?
Take a couple of them.
OK, I - just about as far back here - Yes, I can get back here a little ways farther. Yes, there you go; good show. Good show.
There you go.
We'll take some of you down in the LEB...
Yes.
We'll take some when the Sun comes around, too, Tom. Believe it's...
What have we got left in this bugger? 160.
We'll take a few of these, then we'll take.
10, this is Houston. On that W-matrix, when you punch up Verb 67, we expect in R1 and R2, you get the values showing up in the Flight Plan. And we need a four balls 3 in R3. Over.
Stand by.
It's in there. I saw it.
Where in the shit is the Flight Plan?
Say that again. Over.
Roger. On this W-matrix. When you call up Verb 67 on page 1-72 of the checklist, you'll get values in R1 and R2 which are the ones that are already in the Flight Plan, that is three balls 94, three balls 57. And we need loaded in R3 a plus four balls 3 to put you in cislunar W-matrix. Over.
Roger.
Houston, out.
(Laughing) That'll be classified. I'd like to use this little one in here. I don't know how.
Yes. Yes..
I don't know. Really?
Isn't that nice? Let's - Boy, I - we should make some reference to I bet you it would turn out to be a ball.
When we get back. Tom, take one like that.
OK. Keep your head there above the window.
Above the window?
in the way of the window. See, that Sun's going to wash you out. No good.
Too late; you got to catch it just...
Yes.
you got to catch it just when the Sun comes around. When it comes around to you or John around the hatch window. Try and catch it when the Sun comes in here and comes in there and comes...
See what this says on - on the Moon. Freak it.
Gee, I don't know how to work this thing.
You believe that's just 1/250th at f:8? use f:11.
What? At the Moon?
Yes. At the Sun at the Earth.
Shoot 1/250 at f:8?
ASA 64. Look at it when it comes around to your side.
OK.
SPS engine, I love your ass.
What?
Yes, get that damn thing off my ears and head. You can't either.
The only thing that bothers me about the whole rig is that, after a while, this little earpiece begins to bother me.
Your headset? It's down in here. There's an earpiece on it - there's an earpiece on your headset. Yes, it's on it.
Fuel cell's going to be able to bring her on the line again.
Cooling down on him, huh?
Huh? There's a left, center, right on that little tab on top.
You know, I kind of like Snoop.
Got an electric eye on it, doesn't it?
Yes.
Hey, we're trying some film in here.
I've tried some - and I've tried and tried, and you're right, it doesn't...
I know it. Do you have a time stop on it?
No, that's the trouble, See. At least, I don't see it.
What's all this in here? Have we that?
Yes, it's got ASA at 400 in it.
What's that - what do you then?
You look at something like that light, and then you match that up to put it on it.
Not if you got ASA at 400.
Can you read me now?
Loud and clear.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10. Over.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Roger, Bruce. On our Flight Plan at 150, I've got the temperatures on the Command Module RCS thrusters when you're ready to copy. Over.
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. 5 Charlie, 4.90; 5 Dog, 4.45; 6 Alpha, 4.50; 6 Bravo, 4.80; 6 Charlie, 4.40; 6 Dog, 4.70. Over.
This is Houston. Roger. I believe we copied it correctly one time through. Thank you.
Roger.
The babies are nice and warm. Don't need to heat them.
Right.
Hello, Houston. Charlie Brown.
Go ahead.
I'm just interested in what your plan of attack is for the next day and a half on the use of fuel cell 1. Are we going to crank it up after it cools down to a certain point and use it for a while and then shut it off, or how do you want to handle it? I noticed it is getting down now to - it, I guess around 390 degrees - 80 or 90 degrees [°F, 200°C).
Stand by, 10. EECOM is coming. Over.
OK, Charlie. I just wanted to sort of get the feel for what you're thinking about.
10, Houston. I got some words on the fuel cell. Over.
Go ahead, Charlie.
Roger, Gene-o. We'd like you to put fuel cell 1 on Main A and Main B at this time and keep it online until we - for about an hour or so until we hit TC of 420. Then the thing has been decreasing about 4 degrees per hour. That means well have to cycle it again at about 165 hours for another hour. Over.
OK, Charlie. Ill go ahead and put it on Main A and Main B now. Thank you.
Roger. It'll take about an hour and should be up to about 420 or so.
OK.
Looking good here, Charlie.
Roger. Looking good here.
Houston, 10. Over.
10, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. I was just thinking about that landmark tracking yesterday. Were - were you guys taking - was that the two revs of tracking state vector that we were getting? And then we came around to the landing site and marked on it, that would give us an indication of how good our targeting was.
Stand by.
Roger, 10. The information that you requested was that your vector was based on the radar tracking from the two previous revolutions. Over.
Roger. So if we were repeatable on that landmark on Site 130, that would be an indication of how close you were getting it, probably. Huh?
Roger.
Or not - I don't know. Probably not.
Oh, FIDO down here is nodding yes, that it would be an indication of how close you were getting it.
OK. Thank you.
Right, 10, they had a local solution running down here at the same time, and the results that we were getting were consistent with the results that you were getting. And the landmark tracking exercises were set up so that if properly executed the values would be repeatable. Over.
Understand. I gue - I guess it was repeatable because that site never moved the whole time I was watching it.
Roger, 10. That's what our reduction of your sextant data said, too. It gave us the site in a fixed location from rev to rev.
Outstanding.
Hello, Houston. 10. On that fuel cell, did you say you want me to go ahead and take it off the line at 420 (°F, 216°C) or you want me to wait for some word from you?
Roger. We'll keep an eye on it down here, and give you a call. However, the value we're working towards is 420 (°F, 216°C) and if you see it first, why, I guess there's nothing to stand in your way of taking it off.
OK, Bruce. � I'm reading - How about calibrating me right now. I'm reading about, oh, 390 (°F, 199°C).
Roger. We've got 378.5 (°F, 192.5°C) on our TM here.
OK. Fine. Thank you.
We'll keep track of it for you.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10.
Roger, 10.
Roger. We're still just very gently rolling out here and have a beautiful view we'll be able to show you on our scheduled TV pass. And, again, from this distance as we look back out at the Moon there, the basic color of the highland light area is a tan and the mare area is a brown. And, again, that area I pointed out this morning, you can still see the difference. One looks more like a chocolate brown, the other looks like - more like a light, shall we say a chocolate milkshake, and, I say, the colors haven't changed out this far. Over.
Roger. Those last ones you were referring to were the mare down in the southwest area of the Moon?
That's right, Bruce. Where I showed you that, the line of demarcation between those two flows. Over. By the difference in color. Over.
Roger. I caught that this morning, and that line of demarcation is really very clear down here. And just to confirm...
Roger.
the TV pass is still 152 hours, 35 minutes to 45 minutes. Is that correct?
That's what we've got in the Flight Plan. It looks like were right on it, and everything's looking good. And John's going to go ahead with some of his work here. Over.
Roger.
10, this is Houston. On your waste water dump, we currently have it scheduled at 152 hours GET. We're trying to get some photographic observations of this dump. The east coast of the U.S. is pretty well overcast, and we've received some requests to schedule it at 153:30. We're wondering how you feel about this and whether you were planning to go to sleep in accordance with the time line? Over.
OK. Stand by. Yeah. Roger. That's no problem, and we really feel in great shape. And we might stay up a little bit later than the programmed sleep period today. Over.
Roger. If it's agreeable with you, we'll schedule the waste water dump for 153 hours, 30 minutes. Over.
Roger. Sounds good, Bruce.
Houston, out.
OK, Houston. This is 10. We're going to stop the PTC right about here looking at the Moon so we can do some star/landmark tracking.
Rog.
Houston, 10. What kind of High Gain have you got locked at this point?
Stand by. Roger, 10. We're on Omni Delta right now. Your present attitude is not compatible for High Gain.
OK. Fine. Thank you.
Houston. This is Apollo 10. Over.
Go ahead, Apollo 10.
Rog. I don't know if you can see my DSKY or not...
Yes. We can.
but this thing never even - never even come close to pointing at Taruntius P, and I wonder if I should just go ahead and accept this mark.
Stand by.
I marked it right in Taruntius P, I know.
Roger.
Do I have the - Did I have the latitude and longitude of the thing loaded right? I checked that.
Roger, 10. We were watching you down here. All the loading seems to be correct. We suggest you go ahead and accept it. Over.
OK, Houston. You had better throw out that first one. Somehow that Noun 89 got rewritten in there.
10, this is Houston. Guido says that when you recycle, the data begins to write over what you've got in the cell and the program is performing as anticipated. Over.
It's ain't performing as I anticipated.
Houston. Roger.
I mean anytime it writes over a Noun it's already - just finished putting in there, there's something wrong.
Houston, do you want us to delay for this data that's coming down, or are you getting it anyway?
Roger, 10. If you could slow down just a little bit more at the Noun 49 point, we'd appreciate it. We're having a little trouble copying it.
OK.
Yeah. The problem is that this thing don't - this thing - If youre marking on something that's been in there before, it's got the '0' mark in there on second vector. It has some other landmark Noun 89 in there rather than the first one.
Houston, Apollo 10. Over.
Roger, 10.
That completes the star landmark - the first set. If I wasn't - If I hadn't messed up on that first one, that would have probably been pretty fair.
Roger. We're writing the data now. We'll have an analysis of how it all worked out for you in a few minutes. Over.
Well, from a pilots standpoint, it's far easier than star horizons. Boy!
Roger. When you got a minute...
It's just...
Roger, 10. When you have a minute, we got a maneuver PAD for you.
A maneuver PAD? I thought you scratched that last maneuver?
Roger. We've had a minor revision, here. We have scratched midcourse correction 5. Over.
OK.
You ready to copy?
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. This will be midcourse correction 5 Alpha. Waste water/G&N: 25240, pitch and yaw trim not applicable, GET ignition 153:30:00.00; Noun 81 NA; roll, 326, 171, 060; Noun 44: Lima, Alpha, Romeo, Golf, Echo; HP Bravo, Echo, Tango-Tango, Echo, Romeo; 00001; burn time is 10 minutes, 04 seconds; Delta-VC NA; sextant star, 23, 066.9 29.7; remainder of the PAD is NA. Knowledge remark: monitor in P00, do not trim residuals; shut down manually at 10 per cent on the waste-water purge. For your information, this will change your entry angle from approximately minus 6.9 degrees to approximately minus 6.8 degrees. Over.
Roger. I got everything. Would you repeat the second line of Noun 44, Please?
Which line? Roger...
Noun 44.
Roger. The second line of Noun 44: HP is Bravo, Echo, Tango, Tango, Echo, Romeo. Over.
Roger. I had that. I just wanted to make sure.
That's all right.
OK. MCC-5 Alpha. MCC-5 Alpha is waste water/G&N: 25240, Noun 48 is NA; Noun 33 is 153:30:00.00; Noun 81 is NA; roll, 326, 171, 060; Noun 44 is Lima, Alpha, Rodeo, George, Echo; Bravo, Echo, Tango, Tango, Echo, Romeo; Delta-VT is four balls 1; Birdseye is 10:4; Delta-VC is NA; sextant is 23, 066.9, 29.7. There'll be no ullage; we'll monitor in P00; we will not trim. We'll shut down manually at 10 per cent, and - better not. Never mind.
Roger. Readback correct except that due to the exceptionally long burn time here, the PAD entry doesn't take the amount of time we're looking for. We need 10 minutes and 04 seconds, approximately. We're working on your overburn cut-off criteria.
Hey. Do you want to go over mission rules for this one?
Roger. Did not burn to depletion. 10, what we're looking for is, if it's convenient to maneuver to this attitude, we think we can improve your entry angles just a little bit. If it's not convenient, why you can do the dump in any attitude you happen to be in. As it is set up, this will give you, I guess about a tenth of a foot per second translation plus X.
My golly. We'll be glad to maneuver to the attitude. Anything to improve that angle.
Oh, it sounds pretty darn good right this minute.
Roger. And I - I understand the world is going to be watching on this one to try and track it.
Supposed to be.. And, we show fuel cell 1 skin temp at about 421 degrees [F, 216°C) now. You can take fuel cell number 1 off the line. And, I don't know if you put the potable water heater back on or not. It looks like you can carry that load with no problem if you want to warm up some water for meals. Over.
OK, Jack. I'm taking - We've got the potable water heater, and I'm taking fuel cell 1 off at this time.
Roger. Out.
Houston, 10. Over.
Go ahead, John.
Could you give us an attitude that would be good for this TV pass, so we get the Moon out one window and the Earth out the other window, if feasible?
Roger. FAO just handed it to me. Recommend roll of 338; pitch, 270; yaw, 000. That puts the High Gain at pitch, 019; yaw, 272. This is pointing south, it gives us more time of the Earth in the windows. Over.
Roger. We're going to go to the south orientation now, huh?
Well, it's your druthers, this will give us some more time. This orientation, we get the Earth in the windows more of the time with the High Gain. Over.
Roger. Let's do it, then.
OK.
Houston, this is an attitude to go for the TV pass, right?
Affirmative.
Charlie, you don't want us to set up PTC until after the waste-water dump? Right?
That's affirmative. You can hold off on the PTC until after the dump.
OK.
