(Music: Come Fly With Me")
Good morning, good morning! This is Tom, John, and Gene from KAT 10, broadcasting again from approximately 140,000 miles out into the universe. It's a beautiful day out here, and it appears that it might be a beautiful day down in Mother Earth country. For those of you who are not just ready for work or are just getting up: Get up lazy bones! It's time you got up! Big day ahead! And the thought for today is: Remember, National Secretarys Week was last month!
Good morning, Apollo 10. You managed to wake everybody up early down here, and thank you for your brief program. And, we'll be giving your advice due consideration down here. And we've got a little bit of music for you.
Wonderful, Jack. Let's hear it.
(Music: "Zippity-do-da")
Roger. Thank you for the applause. And watch out for migratory bird season.
That was a couple of seals up here.
You might have recognized Deke Slayton, as solo, on that song we sent up to you. 10.
Roger.
If he's eating that food, he's zipptty-do-da-ed all right.
He's not in here yet, and I'm going home. I'll see you guys later.
Hey, Joe. We haven't had a chance to say hello to you.
I know that. I hung around to wait until you wake up. It was an exciting night last night. I'm glad we SIM'ed it.
We just figured it out. We were rotating from three times an hour, and it's just 3 days and 3 nights every hour now. What day is it? That makes it about the middle of August, I think.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10.
Morning, Tom.
Roger. Is Joe still there? Over.
Roger. He's still here.
Go ahead.
Yes, Joe. How about doing me a favor, will you, old buddy, over?
You name it.
OK. We're kind of out of town for church today, and the minister - You know Reverend Parrot - wanted my - you know, reflections or something that might be appropriate to read in the service since I won't be around there. Have you got a pencil? I just had copied down a couple of things that I thought might be appropriate. Over.
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. Psalm 8, Psalm 122, Psalm 148, and Isaiah 2:4. Over.
OK. Readback: Psalm 8, 122, 148 and Isaiah 2:4.
Right. Just tell the congregation hello for me and that I thought that those might be appropriate since he was asking for something that - you know - to go along with the mission. Over.
Roger that, Tom. That is very appropriate; I'll see that the word gets around.
Joe knows them all, right off the top of his head.
OK. Right.
Hey, Jack, we're sorry to keep you off the golf course this morning.
I gave up the game a long time ago.
We'll have to try it again after we get back.
That's a good idea. Like to take it up.
Hey, Gene. I've got your astrocast here. We're trying to whip up some news, but I think it will be a while. Yours is...
OK. Go ahead.
This Sunday may find you in some quandary over home conditions. There should be some help available. Don't make smart remarks about Marines.
Who wrote that? Did the great philosopher write that?
The unemployed philosopher. He's got the day off today.
Im still waiting for that special song.
And here's John's. His money has to be spent today on institutions and the use of them for various purposes. Take the time to check everything out before doing anything drastic. Finding out the "why" in a situation may be more important than any other determination.
They got me there, all right.
Yes. And, Tom. Your relatives and neighbors expect to see you this Sunday. Do the amenities gratefully. Make the rounds; there are gifts for you here and there. Then seek solitude. Reprimand all those in your command who make smart remarks about Marines. Over.
Tremendous, Jack. Just tremendous.
Hey, Jack. Don't you call us. We'll call you.
Are you just coming on duty, or are you leaving?
Just coming on.
Oh, my golly.
I've been out guarding the gate all night, of course.
4. We'll continue to monitor air-ground transmissions as the crew completes breakfast and get into the crew status report. Flight Plan updates, and the day's activities which are primarily midcourse navigation using a combination of star and Earth horizon. in which the included angle between the near or far Earth horizon and the desired navigation star is massaged by the onboard computer to provide position and velocity information. Standing by on live air-ground for resumption of communication with Apollo 10.
Hello, Houston. This is Charlie Brown.
Go ahead, Charlie.
You're Snoopy.
Jack, I'd like to hold off on this ECS redundant component check until we get fuel cell number 1 back on the line, which I assume won't be too long, judging from the temperature. The main reason is I'd just rather do that when I turn on the secondary pump.
OK, Gene-o. That will work out good.
OK. Thank you, Jack.
Apollo 10, Houston. I've got the Orange Bugle, here, when you're ready to listen.
Send it up, Jack.
OK. Hilo, Hawaii: Kilauea Volcano on the Island of Hawaii erupted shortly before dawn Saturday, spewing lava 200 feet into the air. Dr. Howard Power, scientist in charge of the US Geological Surveys Volcano Observatory said it was the 14th eruption of Kilauea since 1960. The last one occurred February 22 and one lasted for 55 hours. Aboard the Yacht Duchess: The first men scheduled to land on the Moon practiced Earth splashdown procedures in the Gulf of Mexico Saturday and sprayed each other with disinfectant that will be used to guard against any unexpected moonbug contamination. Apollo 11 astronauts Neil Armstrong, Mike Collins, and Buzz Aldrin wore olive drab plastic-coated biological isolation garments designed to keep any hostile organism they might bring back from getting loose in the Earth's environment. The exercise began when a dummy moonship with the pilots aboard was dumped into the calm Gulf 3 miles south of Galveston, Texas, from the space agency's vessel retriever. The Command Module was turned upside-down and then flipped over using its own righting systems. Four swimmers attached a yellow flotation collar to the capsule and one of them donned an isolation garment while the other swimmers moved away in a raft. Miami Beach: Blond, hazel-eyed Miss Virginia, 19-year-old Wendy Datson, Saturday night was selected 1969 Miss USA over four other finalists in the annual pageant. Daughter of a Danville, Virginia, physician, Miss Datson is a former cheerleader who is now attending Stratford College. She said she entered the contest because a schoolmate said she might have a good possibility of winning. Pago Pago, American Samoa: The governor of this South Pacific American territory said promised a Polynesian welcome of singing and dancing for the Apollo 10 astronauts, but nothing risqu´. The celebration on Monday, limited to 10 minutes, will include a typical Samoan dance by several of our beautiful girls, said Governor Owen Aspinall. The dancers will wear the Samoan full dancing costume, a colorful two-piece outfit consisting of a wrap-around skirt and blouse. There will be nothing risqu´, of course, said the Governor. The dancers are well within the propriety of their Samoan custom. So while they're dancing, you can stand there itching. Moscow: A Soviet scientist said Saturday that Russia will depend on machines instead of man to explore the gloomiest corner of the solar system. He indicated the Soviets planned a spectacular series of manned space shots within the next decade, culminating in 1977 with a 9-year instrument odyssey to four different planets. "Such a trip," he said "could not be repeated in this century." Hagerstown, Maryland: Even in these days of affluence in society it may sound a bit hedonistic to own your own railroad car, but Rueben Darby has made a business of converting old railroad cars into private palace cars. The price is $50,000 and up. Wonder what they do with old command modules? London: The achievement of Apollo 10 is a superb combination of human courage and technical skills, Sir Bernard Lovell, director of Britain's Jodrell Bank Observatory and a leading space expert, said today in an article for the times. Khatmandu, Nepal: The five-member Swiss mountaineering group has conquered 22,686-foot Mount.... in western Nepal. The leader of the expedition said today - named George Hartman - that his team scaled the mountain twice in 1 day. In the National League: Chicago 7, San Diego 5; Houston over the Mets, 5 to 1; and the Phillies beat the Braves 8 to 3. I've got the rest of the scores here if you want them. Oklahoma still doesn't have a baseball team.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Go ahead.
Jack, I don't know whether we lost you or not, but the last we heard was the mountain climbing.
OK. you lost me. Let's just pick up the baseball scores. That's all I had left. Chicago 7, San Diego 5; Houston 5, Mets 1; Phillies 8, Braves 3; and still no baseball team in Oklahoma.
Roger.
Looks like the Cubs and the Astros are the hottest ball clubs in the league this week.
Yes. The Cubs are quite a ways out in front and Houston really needs it.
Yes. I've got two loyalties there, and so I'm for both teams. Hey, listen, our heartiest and sincere personal congratulations to Miss Virginia.
Roger. We copy. Sincere congratulations to 19-year-old Miss Virginia.
Thank you for the news, Jack. How's the weather back there these days?
Well, the weather around Houston has been real nice. It's getting rather warm, up to about 90 each day. The old humidity is starting to climb, too.
We meant the recovery area.
I have a request in for weather and we'll get that to you pretty soon.
OK.
And, Jack, you might pass on to the Governor down there in Samoa that we're certainly looking forward to the reception and seeing his beautiful island. Over.
Roger, Tom. We'll pass that on.
OK, 10. Houston. Here's the weather forecast for the landing area. Essentially no change from the weather I gave you yesterday. 1,800 scattered, 10,000 broken, high broken 10 miles. Wind 120 at 15 knots, wave height is 5 feet, 81 degrees, widely scattered showers. Over.
Jack, we missed the first part of that.
OK. The weather conditions are no different than forecast yesterday. 1,800 scattered, 10,000 broken, high broken in 10, wind 120 at 15, wave height 5 feet, 81 degrees, widely scattered showers. Over.
OK. Thank you.
Houston, this is 10.
Go ahead.
As we played "Fly Me To The Moon" about 4 days ago on our way out to remind you of help we needed, we'd like to play you one more song in its entirety to remind you of our determinations.
OK. Go ahead. We're listening.
(Music: "Going Back To Houston")
Roger, 10. We can see you're really determined to get here. As a matter of fact, if you want, we probably could arrange it so as you didn't have to stop at Samoa on the way. Over.
Jack, after careful consideration here, we voted that you should go back and guard the gate.
Apollo 10, Houston. We would kind of like to go to High Gain antenna, and during PTC mode, if you would go to Reacq and Narrow Beam, your settings are pitch plus 30 and yaw 270. Over.
OK. How soon do you expect us to pick that up, Jack? I'm in Narrow and Reacq right now and I will go to High Gain on my switches, here. And you can switch us whenever you think we will get ACQ.
Roger. And during the times that you are not in PTC today, go High Gain to Manual and select Omni B. Over.
Omni B. Roger.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Howdy, 10. Reading you loud and clear, now.
Yes. That - let me get that antenna set up for you, and then I'll put it in Reacq because it doesn't want to pick it up and lock onto you and reacq you. Let me know when you want to make that switch over to High Gain, and I'll set it up for you and then put it in Reacq, and then we'll let it run. Otherwise, I don't think it's going to lock on for us. And I've got some RAD readings for you if you'd like them.
OK. Let's go with the RAD readings.
OK. 26046, 05046, and 15047.
Roger.
Proper report from yesterday - proper reports from yesterday: the Commander and the CMP both had.
Roger. We copy.
And, 10, Houston. You can select High Gain now. Over.
OK. Will do.
Apollo 10, Houston. How do you read now?
OK, Jack. I'll give it to you now. It's in Reacq at plus 30 and 270.
OK, Good.
OK, 10. On the High Gain antenna then, you can leave her hands off and we'll take her from there. Over.
It's all yours. I didn't mean to hit Command Reset but since there's nothing critical, I'd play with it for a while and get it set up because the first time around it didn't want to acquire. It was banging all over the place when we were trying to come back around, so I thought I'd get you a good lock on. So we're at Reacq narrow plus 30, 270 and youve got them.
OK, Gene-o. We weren't quite in the High Gain attitude there, and we weren't able to get our command in.
Okey doke.
Jack, what do you think about putting Fuel Cell 1 on, and I'll get on with that redundant component check and start the battery charge and what have you?
OK, Gene. Let's crank up fuel cell 1 and put it on both buses and give it a chance to warm up, and in about 1 hour we'll go with the redundant component check. Over.
OK. Is it OK then to go ahead and put start charging battery B at this time after I get it on?
Affirmative, Gene-o. You can start your battery B recharge.
Thank you.
And when you're ready to copy I've got consumables and Flight Plan. Over.
OK, Jack. Go ahead on the consumables. Over.
OK. On the consumables, Tom, at 162 hours we had total RCS, 55 percent; A, 44 60 56 58: H2 and O2 is 24.7 and 315. Your RCS is 18 percent above the Flight Plan.
OK. I got all those. Thank you.
And, Apollo 10, we've got you out there at about 130,000 miles at about 5,700 feet per second, and got a nominal entry angle of minus 6.52.
Roger. You mean that last maneuver we made with the - using the G&N and the water put us in the corridor there? Over.
Roger.
Fantastic!
Roger. We'll...
Well, from that I take it we don't - Pardon me. What I take from that is we don't make any more midcourses? Over.
OK, 10. The numbers that I gave you were with a midcourse, would be minus 6.52. So we're going to do a midcourse 6. Over.
Roger. Understand midcourse 6. Thank you.
And in our present status without a midcourse, we'd be up around 6.95, so we're right in there anyway pretty close, but we ought to sweeten it up a little.
Roger. We agree. Over.
And Apollo 10, Houston. We have a state vector for you when we can get your computer and we also have a minor Flight Plan update. Over.
Roger. Computer is in Accept at this time and go ahead.
Roger. Flight Plan update. Here's a note first. The P23's scheduled for today are designed to determine the minimum Sun angle. However, you may have a little difficulty with one or more of these sets due to the Sun angle. However, the attempt should be made anyway on schedule. At 168 hours, consideration is being given to an S-band reflectivity test and the test procedures are on page 3-19A of the Flight Plan.
OK, Apollo 10. Apollo 10, Houston. Understand we didn't key, so I'll repeat.
Roger. We're trying to follow.
How much did you copy, Tom?
Nothing.
OK. The site wasn't keying...
We didn't copy at all.
Roger. The site wasn't keying and they're keying for us now. So the P23's that are scheduled for today are designed to determine the minimum Sun angle. You may have a little difficulty with one or more of these tests because of the Sun angle. However, the attempt should he made anyway on schedule. At 168 hours, we're giving consideration to making an S-band reflectivity test and these test procedures are on page 3-19A of the Flight Plan. But - We'll come through with more word on this later. At 170:30, delete the ECS redundant component cheek. This check is duplicated in about an hour anyway, so we'll delete that one at 170 hours, Over.
Roger. We have the ECS redundant component check deleted.
Houston, with that state vector you just gave us, would it be OK to run through P37 to see what that midcourse is going to be? Just to see what this thing thinks it's going to be?
Stand by one, John.
OK. Apollo 10, Houston. Uplink complete; you can go the Block, and we'd like to see you do some P37's. And the time you can use is 176:50, and we would like to follow you through on it. Over.
Apollo 10, Houston. Did you copy?
Roger. We're going to run through P37 right now.
Are you guys copying all this OK, Jack?
That is affirmative, John. We've got it.
Time of transfer: 14 hours, 58 minutes and 44.78 seconds.
Roger. We see it.
Wow!
Houston, 10.
Go ahead.
Jack, can you get me a recommended exposure setting to use the interior 16-millimeter film outside at distant Earth, please?
Stand by one.
Just want to check it against my stop-meter here.
Roger.
Gee whiz! Just two passes.
That's great.
Apollo 10, Houston. We noticed you got Delta-V - correction, inertial velocity 36,314. We had difference by 1 foot per second, and you got minus 6.5. We got minus 6.52. Over.
Well, I don't know why. You guys sent me the data. I wouldn't argue over a 200th of a degree anyway; nobody knows it that well.
Roger. We were just trying to tell you how well off you are.
Roger.
Never doubt.
What did you guys get for Delta-V?
Well we're looking a 1.2 on the Delta-V.
Outstanding.
Apollo 10, Houston. We have some dope on the exposure setting for you. Turns out the whole film, of course, has to be processed the same way, so if you are going to use a whole magazine for exterior shots, that is a whole magazine, your exposure settings should be film at 1/250. If you want to use part of the film for - part of the magazine for interior shots, then do you exterior shots at f:22 and 1/500. Over.
Jack, I missed part of that. I understand exterior shots with the 69- and 60-millimeter interior is f:22 at 1/500. That's all I heard.
Houston, this is 10.
OK, 10. How do you read me now? Over.
OK. Why don't you repeat that for us, Jack? Would you?
OK. Since the whole film has got to be processed in one batch, if you want to use the whole magazine for exterior shots, your setting should be f:11 at 1/250. But if you want to use part of the magazine interior, then do the exteriors at f:22 and 1/500, so that all the pictures will come out all right when they are processed. Over.
OK. I got that. Thank you very much, Jack.
Apollo 10, Houston. It turns out that it's quite important that we do this P23 midcourse navigation drill pretty much on time to get the appropriate data and solutions, and so would like to recommend that we get on with it pretty soon. Over.
Roger. We're going on with it right now.
Houston, we are wondering from that first look if the W-matrix is OK,
Stand by one. We'll have somebody look at it.
Apollo 10, Houston. Turns out the only way we can look at the W-matrix is to have you call up a verb 67. Over.
Roger. Well according to the instructions, we're not supposed to change it from what it was the other day, but I was wondering if when you uplink a state vector that doesn't reshuffle it some way or another.
Apollo 10, Houston. If you call up a Verb 67, all that does is let you look at the W-matrix - doesn't do anything to it and when we send you a state vector, it would just reinitialize it. Over.
OK.
And, John, when your buddies wake up there, I've got a maneuver PAD and an entry PAD anytime you are ready for it.
Roger. Go. They are not quite ready.
Only with you down there can we feel so secure, Jack, and we're ready to copy, babe.
OK. I've got a midcourse 6 maneuver PAD. Midcourse 6, RCS/G&N: 25240 176 49 5728, plus three balls 12, plus all balls, plus all balls, 088 354 351, NA. HP is plus 00212 00012 005 00012 40 2744 340 033 Delta 003, Lima 12. The rest is NA. Your set stars are Deneb 43, Vega 36. Roll align 148 013 018. Your ullage is a two- quad burn; use Bravo and Delta. How do you copy? Over.
I think I got it all, Jack. It's midcourse 6, it's an RCS/G&N burn: 25240, then we'll go to Noun 33: 176 49 5728, plus three balls 12, plus all balls, plus all balls, roll is 088, 354, and 351. Perigee is plus two balls 212, three balls 12, two balls 5, three balls 12 40 2744 340 033 Delta 003 and Lima 12. Deneb 43, and Vega 36; 148 013 and 018; two quads: Bravo and Delta.
That's right, Gene, and I've got an entry PAD when you're ready.
OK, Jack.
OK. Entry PAD, Mid-Pacific: three balls 153, three balls 191 31 55 268, minus 1507, minus 164 68 067 36315 652 12040 36395, 191 48 55, 00 28; DL MAX; DL MIN is NA; Noun 69 is all NA; 400 02 08 0018 0329.
Jack, stand by. After Noun 69, where are you picking up, please?
After Noun 69, we are picking up at V circular, D zero.
OK. Hit me with D zero again, would you, please? 400, but pick it up again.
D zero is 400 02 08 0018 0329 0818 40 2611 347 033, Dog 080, Lima 22, lift vector is UP. Your gimbal angles on entry PAD are based on option 2 at 191 48 55 which is at 400,000 feet. Your GDC align set stars for the entry alignment are Deneb 43, Vega 36. Roll is 067, pitch is 174, yaw is 343. Over.
OK. I've got Mid-Pac: three balls 153 and three balls 191 3155 268, minus 1507, minus 16468 067 36315 652, 12040 36 395 191 48 55 00 28; picking up at D zero, 400 0208 0018 0329, 0818 40 2611 347 033 Delta 080, Lima 22, lift vectors UP; roll and pitch and yaw angles are based upon option 2, and that's at 191 48 55 and I believe that's at 400 K. Our set stars are Deneb 43 and Vega 36; 067, 174 and 343.
Roger, Tom. Got it all.
And, Gene-o, when you get around to it, for c.g. purposes, we're going to have to take a look at the LCL recovery checklist on activation serial number 1003, and with those items of significant weight, why, if youd just read the number and their stowage location, that will take care of it. Over.
OK, Jack. We'll get that to you.
Gene, this is Houston. If you're going to stay in this attitude for a few minutes more, it would be a good idea to start the redundant component check now. Over.
OK. Fine.
Jack, I'm also starting a fuel cell purge at this time.
Roger. We copy.
Apollo 10, Houston.
10, Roger. Go ahead with the fuel cell purge.
Houston, Apollo 10. Do you want us to remain in approximately this attitude for the next 2 hours; and where we're going to be picking up sextant navigation stars horizon marks? Over.
Stand by one, Tom.
Apollo 10, Houston; We suggest going back to PTC after the redundant component check is completed, and we'd like to have some words from John as to Sun interference in his P23. Over.
He'll talk to you in a minute. Over.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10.
Go ahead 10.
Say, Jack, we're starting to get pretty cold in the cabin since we've got to blank out all the windows here for John to do that tracking, and we'd like to get some Sun in this cockpit. Over. So how about delaying here for a few minutes to put the Sun in one of the windows? Over.
Sure, this whole attitude business is at your convenience, Tom.
Houston, on that P23, I dont think the problem was interference with the Sun. The problem was to try to determine how close to the terminator you could mark stars, wasn't it?
So you can relax some those star selection sightings for no comm.
Stand by, John.
I think that the purpose of it was to be able to improve the star selection sighting schedules for the no comm cases. And I didn't have any problem tracking those close to the terminator....
Roger. We copy. Yes, John. You're right.
Apollo 10, Houston. Secondary coolant loop check looks good here, and you can go to Reset on your secondary Evap. Over.
OK.
Apollo 10, Houston. Your secondary Evap backpressure looks OK now, and you can turn your secondary pump off. This will help you out in that cabin temperature some, there.
Thank you, Jack. We've got it cleaned up, now.
Apollo 10, Houston. I've got some Flight Plan information for you.
Apollo 10, Houston. I have some Flight Plan information for you.
Stand by for a minute, Houston. Over.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 10. Go ahead on that Flight Plan. Over.
OK, 10. Before we go ahead with the Flight Plan, we'd like you to turn on your H2 purge line heaters now, and start an H2 purge on fuel cell 1 in 20 minutes. And here's the Flight Plan update. A good time to perform this S-band reflectivity test would be after the completion of P23. And we mentioned that the procedure is on page 3-19A of your Flight Plan. Your acquisition angle for beginning this test is roll 033, pitch 196, yaw 337. And your High Gain angles are pitch minus 010 and yaw 300. In addition, I have roll, pitch, and yaw attitudes and High Gain angles for tests 1, 2, and 3, if you need them.
OK. Stand by.
OK. We're looking at 3-19A now, and go ahead for tests 1, 2, and 3. Over.
OK. For test 1: roll 027, pitch 196, yaw 298. Your High Gain angles will be pitch minus 010, yaw 340. For test number 2: roll is 065, pitch is 196, yaw 298. High gain angles are pitch minus 020 and yaw 350. Test number 3: roll 090, pitch 196, Yaw 306. And your High Gain angles are pitch minus 30 degrees, and yaw is 360 degrees. Over.
Roger. On the callback here. For test 1: roll 027, pitch 196, yaw 298. High gain: pitch minus 010, yaw 340. Test 2: roll 065, pitch 196, yaw 298. High gain: pitch minus 020, yaw 350. Test 3: roll 090, pitch 196, yaw 306. High gain: pitch minus 030, and yaw is 360. Over.
Thats affirmative, Tom.
OK, Jack. And then we'll pick this up around 168 hours. Over.
Roger. 168 hours. And did you copy turning on your H2 purge line heaters? Over.
Roger. You wanted that done in 20 minutes, or do you want it done now for a period of 20? Over.
We would like you to turn on your H2 purge line heaters now, and then start your H2 purge in 20 minutes on fuel cell 1. Over.
OK. Mark the purge line heaters on.
And that will be a continuous purge on each - on fuel cell 1. Over.
Roger. In 20 minutes well start - In other words, you want us to continue to purge fuel cell 1 from now on, then? Over.
That's affirmative. We'll let you know when to terminate the purge on it.
OK.
Apollo 10, Houston. We have a request. We'd like you to - during the reflectivity test, to punch up Verb 64 for us so we can read out the High Gain pitch and yaw angles down here on the ground. Over.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Go ahead, 10.
Get your LCL recovery checklist, if you would, Jack.
Go ahead.
OK. The items I call out are the items that we will stow. That's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 18, 20, 21, 22.
Roger. Copy.
OK. Items 20 and 21 are stowed in the tissue section of A-1.
Understand. Tissue section of A-1.
20 - 22 is in A-8 with the exerciser.
Go ahead.
All other items are stowed is a single bag. They will be on the onboard side of A-6 strapped down. They'll be between A-6 and the bulkhead.
Roger.
That's it for the LCL. We're not sure exactly yet where we're going to put the canister.
Roger.
You might pass on to - to Joe that items 9 and 10, which were highly cherished, were unavailable.
Roger. We'll pass the word.
Tell him the LCL recovery checklist procedure was not applicable for those two items.
Roger.
Apollo 10, Houston. We have s stowage - a recommended stowage location down here for the lithium hydroxide canister. It says to wrap it in plastic, and wrap it in a sleeping bag, and put it in L-3. Did you get that word? Over.
Well, that's OK. But we're not eating that much food. L-2 and L-3 are still just about full of food. Over.
Roger. We copy, Tom. Did you wrap the canister up to prevent breathing that hydroxide? Over.
Roger. We wrapped it.
It looks to us like turning the cabin into the Sun increases the cabin temperature about 3 degrees.
Roger, John. We copy.
Maybe it was 1 degree. Would you believe a half a degree?
Roger. We copy. It didn't do much good.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Go ahead,10.
On that - On that LCL recovery checklist, I did make one mistake. You want to get it out again?
Sure, I got it.
I said we brought back items 20, 21, and 22 for stowage. Actually, it was 19, 20, and 22. 21 was really not in condition to bring back.
Roger. We copy.
Think about that one.
Roger. I'll pass the word on to the appropriate people and let them think about it.
You may not have to go too far.
Does super RETRO want to know how many tons of gear we left in the LM?
That's affirmative. How many tons did you leave in the LM?
Seemed about like 20 or 30. We took a temporary stowage bag, three helmet bags full of fluid, materials, and insulation, which probably doesn't weigh very much, and - and - and I would and the hatch stowage bag was full of a lot of gear -the hatch stowage bag. Actually, the weight of that stuff was probably - it was a lot in volume, but it didn't seem to be - You know, it didn't feel like much. But there's a lot of weight. We took one temporary stowage bag and three helmet bags - not helmet bags, but those inner bags in the helmets that you keep your gloves in. We had those full of gear, and one hatch bag. And it was All full of waste material. And I would - I wouldn't even try to guess how much that weighed, but it would be the equivalent of how many days fluid and materials you'd normally expect to use by that time.
Roger. We copy.
Also, it seems like the docking target got misplaced and went with Snoopy.
Roger. Copy. And we'd like you to start the purge on fuel cell 1 now, please.
OK.
But the hatch bag turned out to be a very convenient waste disposal stowage thing. We had that thing just crammed full of stuff.
OK.
Jack, it's after the fact, and as far as LM stowage for that c.g. on that burn was concerned, but it was stowed opposite the probe and drogue on the right-hand side. But like John said, it was big and bulky, but I'm sure it didn't weigh but a couple or 3, 4, or 5 pounds, maybe. And at that time, I didn't think it significant to mention because of the LM c.g., and apparently it wasn't.
OK. Stowed opposite the probe and drogue. And that was the hatch stowage bag?
That's affirmative.
Apollo 10, Houston. We've got some configurations to do on the H2 and O2 tank heaters. H2 tank 1 heater Off, tank 2 heater Auto; O2 tank 1 heater Auto, mud tank 2 heater Off.
OK, Jack. Ive got those. You know, you're the first guy that's ever passed those up in order of H2 1 and 2 and O2 1 and 2? I always get them in some other order. But that's the way I've got them now.
That's left to right, isn't it?
I knew it would have to be different from you, but it seems right this way.
Apollo 10, Houston. Here's something that I didn't get acknowledgment on. If you're not using the computer during the S-band reflectivity test, we'd like you to do a Verb 64 so we can watch the High Gain pitch and yaw angles down here. Over.
Roger. We copied that, Jack, and we'll give it to you.
Thank you.
We will be using the computer to make Automaneuvers to those angles. Over.
Roger.
Apollo 10, Houston. We've got another news item here. In the Atlanta Classic, Bruce Crampton is leading. In second place by two strokes, Bert Yancy, Bruce Develin, and Gary Player. And the unemployed local philosopher- He just showed up unexpectedly, and he says that color TV is on its way back, just as he predicted, and it's going to make a real splash around here pretty soon.
Roger. Thank you very much for the news there, Jack.
Apollo 10, Houston: We note down here that you are using only one RCS quad. Unless you'd rather do it otherwise, unless you'd rather continue to do it this way, we'd prefer to use two quads because it does perturb the trajectory somewhat to use only one quad at a time. Over.
OK. Will do. I was just reducing the usage on A. We've got plenty of fuel; just trying to balance it out. I'll go do that. OK. Got them.
And, 10, according to our charts down here, they look pretty well balanced. The requirements are such that A should be looking about the way it is right now.
OK. The onboard indicators are pretty much off then. Over.
OK, Tom.
Now, these folks down here tell me that you guys have so far set the economy record on the fuel usage so far.
Roger. Thank you. We've been watching it real close. We did use quite a bit in the landmark tracking's to really pulse and make sure everything was on there since we knew how important that was, but other than that, we've been watching it as tight as we could. Over.
Roger, Tom.
Put you in the Mobil Economy Run next year, Tom.
Yes. Right, Ed. Hello there.
Watch who'll get you for a commercial.
Good morning, Gordo. How are you?
Fine, Tom. We enjoyed your readings this morning.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 10. That completes the star horizon check. I guess the next activity will be about 168 hours when we come up for the reflectivity test. Over.
Roger, 10. We copy.
And we are going to open all shades now and get some heat in this place. Over.
Roger.
And I notice our quad A temperature has gone up quite a bit, even though it is still lower than what we had in lunar orbit. We'll go ahead and start maneuvering into these attitudes for the S-band reflectivity test. Over.
Roger, Tom.
Hello, Houston. 10.
Go.
On the reflectivity test, do you want us to go to these angles we got copied in here for 1, 2, and 3, or do you want us to go to those acquisition angles that we've also got copied in here. They are a little different.
Stand by.
Apollo 10, Houston. We don't see any reason why you can't set up your deadband and then go right into test 1 attitude. Over.
OK. Fine.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Go ahead, 10.
Jack, you got 3-19A in front of you?
I have.
OK. Step 4 says when High Gain meter compares to High Gain control, you go through those next two steps and then you record the meter. It appears to me the meter reading is going to be the same as where you set the control needle just to do step 4.
Stand by one.
Houston, this is 10. I'll go ahead and record step 5 and if there's any difference, just make note of it. I'll just go ahead and follow through with it.
Roger.
Jack, just one other quick question. Step 2, where I've got the control values, I used the new control values that you read up to Tom here a little while ago for test 1, 2, and 3. Is that correct?
Stand by one.
OK, Gene. In step 1, we gave you the attitudes to which to go to get the pitch and yaw angles as specified in tests 1, 2, and 3. And then we still want you to set your High Gain control to those settings which are listed in step 2, which are all 20 degrees off in yaw.
Jack, you gave us a roll, pitch and yaw attitude and a High Gain pitch and yaw for tests 1, 2, and 3. I'm just a little bit confused. On step 2, do you want me to use the printed numbers in the book or do you want me to use the pitch and yaw that you gave us before with the roll, pitch, and yaw for tests 1, 2, and 3?
OK. The attitudes that I gave you were just a convenience number. Those are the attitudes to which you should go to set up your antenna as specified in step 1. Then we want you to slew the - -
OK. Fine...
Roger. Copy now?
OK. Yes. I'll use your pitch and yaw for acquisition and then I'll go right through steps 1, 2, 3, and so forth just as written with the numbers.
Right. And then when you go to step 3, this causes you to slew off and then you go to step 4 back to Auto. This will tell us how well the antenna comes back to the position to which we want it to come.
OK.
And if we get the same numbers in step 5, why, then we know that the antenna is doing what we want it to, and if not, why, we want to know what those numbers are and reduce the data later.
Okey doke.
Apollo 10, we're handing over the High Gain. You may get a burst of noise.
OK, Houston. We're at the first attitude and I'm going to my ranging switch off and we do have a good lock at this attitude.
Roger.
OK, now I maneuver to High Gain, here.
High Gain High Gain.
Minus 10 and 340.
Set High Gain Antenna control to minus 10 and 320.
It said High Gain Antenna control to minus 10 and 320.... High Gain...?
It is.
Right?
Yes.
Yes.
High Gain Antenna... High Gain. Can High Gain be... compared?
High Gain control.
Shit, they always compare.
I mean manually.
High Gain High Gain control. Shit, when you're in Manual, they always...
Hello, Houston. This is Apollo 10. on this reflectivity test Im rolling right.
No, I think they want us to get all through with it, Tom.
You don't have to hold attitude to proceed, Tom.
OK.
Proceed to CMC in Auto.
Apollo 10, Houston. We've got lots of background noise. Stand by on your transmission.
OK, what'd you do? What's your - fuel - cryo pressure?
I'll get, Tom.
Have we got the other fuel cell on the line? Huh?
Is fuel cell 1 heating?
Huh? Is it on the line?
Yes.
Turn the freaking heater on.
Apollo 10, Houston. You have a caution and warning on the H2 Press Cryo tank. Don't worry about it. In fact, the heater's going to cycle momentarily to bring that pressure back up.
OK. Looks like it's tank 1 to us. Tank 2 is well in the green.
Roger. We copy tank 1. It'll cycle and come on up.
Yes. But the heater configuration switch is Off.
Well, it was because I just turned it on.
But that's the configuration I gave you 30 minutes ago.
I just flipped the heater switch to Auto. Okay.
Roger, 10. They tell us that tank 1 is going to follow the tank 2 heater cycle. Over.
Tank is off.
OK.
I don't understand that one.
is lower. It cuts on.
High Gain meter to High Gain control. High Gain Auto...
Let's turn. We got the Cryo pressure again. Over.
We're in High Gain.
We're really banging or freaking this damn antenna back uplink on the Omni.
Apollo 10, Houston. Let's put heaters in both H2 Cryo tanks to Auto. Over.
OK, there both Auto. And we're in step 5, test 1.
Roger.
zero, zero, zero.
Hello, Houston, Houston. How do you read test 1?
We're reading you, 10. A little background noise.
OK. Very good. I'm going on to step 2 and Ill give you a reading test when it's all over.
Roger.
Maneuver to High Gain. Minus 20 and 320.
You got to go to that different attitude, don't you?
Yes. Tom, how about roll 065...
I've got to roll 065? You mean, after I get him, I go to a different attitude on test 1?
Yes.
Well, we're on test 2 now.
Oh, this is the second test. OK, let's go here.
Do you want me to do that for you?
Yes. Why don't you...
OK. What's the numbers there, Gene-o?
065, 196, 298.
Same thing, huh? 065, 196, and 298, huh? Go.
I wished I knew what the freak we're doing.
Tell you what - I'd better talk...
I know it.
Apollo 10, Houston. We need the fans on in both H2 Cryo tanks. Over.
the shit out of our cryo's.
OK. The fans are on.
fuel cell off?
Keeps it running, doesn't it, by God; keeps the damn temperature down there...
That's where it is.
That's right.
Heater's broken off-scale, and we're purging off-scale high. How about that?
We still got the Fuel Cell 1 light now, but for a different reason. Hell, we've got it for three reasons.
That's right, three reasons, three out of the six not bad (yawn).
Oh! 91 from 168. That sure is an interesting test you're running there, Gene-o, but I if I understand it. Uh-oh, where is the entry checklist?
I've got it.
Can I bum it from you?
Sure can.
Want to-look over some of that good stuff here before we?
make you hungry, John?
should just be exquisite.
OK, we're there.
Yes, I know.
Hello, Houston, Houston. This is Apollo 10. How do you read on test 2?
Read you loud and clear.
OK. We'll Proceed to test 3.
Roger on 3.
090.
OK, roll is 090.
Yes.
OK, pitch?
196 and 30...
OK, roll is 090, pitch is 196, yaw is 30 OK.
What you got this thing here up here for?
What thing?
That thing here.
I've never - Must have done that.
That was that one we launched.
It was?
Yes, because I never touched it.
I never touched it.
I never touched it.
Oh, shit.
have to abort.
I'm glad we didn't, too.
I never touched it. I didn't even notice the damn thing.
I - You know - I said, well, you know, one of.
Well, that'll help attenuate shock and pull that thing in tension.
Pull it right out of the freaking wall.
I had assumed you put it up there when you did the check.
Hell, no; I didn't need it. Zero g. It was up when I - you know - it was up. I figured you'd already put it up.
Let me know - how close we are, Tom.
We're there. Alright?
You know, I bet when we splash down out there, this water - cold water runs all out in that.
Bet you're right. That's probably where all the water comes from.
I bet - I bet there'll be water galore cold now.
Well, a lot of it's condensing up the hatch, too.
That shit will come raining down...
That's a good place for it; there ain't no wires up here. I don't give a shit if we get ice up here as long as there ain't no wiring up there as long as we don't have to live up there.
Good place to put your feet up.
If I was designing the spacecraft, I'd make the bastard get the water out of it before it ever starts; but once it's designed, that's probably as good a place to have a water separator as anywhere.
Did the other spacecraft notice water under there?
I don't know if they ever noticed ice or not. We've got a lot of water up there now, a lot, a lot. Let me get my rag and go up in there and clean it out, as a matter of fact. Here, let me look at this here.
5-C and -D. at 168 hours 5-C...
Hello, Houston. This is 10. How do you read?
Loud and clear. How me?
I'm reading you the same. I've got your readings if youd like them for 1, 2, and 3.
Go ahead.
Roger 10. Go ahead with the reading.
Test 1 is pitch minus 10, yaw 360, and the percent signal is 65, and it was oscillating about two needles' width. Two is minus 25, 360, 65 percent, and steady. Three is minus 30, meter flipped to 000, 90 percent, and steady.
Roger. Me copied all that. Thank you.
OK, Jack?
Houston, Apollo 10. We're all set to go back to PTC at this time. Over.
Roger, Tom. Set yourself up in PTC.
Jack, two added comments on the first and second tests: it appeared to me that the High Gain antenna did not regain a signal strength. However, in the third test, it appeared that it did 90 percent.
Roger. We copy, Gene. Thank you.
I tell you, though, in the last 3 or 4 days, I've become a High Gain fan.
Roger. And the High Gain sure sounds a lot clearer and a lot better down here than the Omni's do.
Sounds like you're sitting in the cockpit with us, Jack.
Apollo 10, Houston. We're going to do another High Gain handover here in about 20 seconds; you might expect another burst.
Roger.
Hey, Jack, is it 12 o'clock noon down there?
That's pretty darn close; I've got 12:04.
Apollo 10, Houston. We'll need the S-band nominal ranging switch Ranging, please.
Sorry about that, Jack.
Apollo 10, Houston. We expect that you are in the 20-minute wait period for setting up PTC and we notice that we have all four quads. We'll need Alfa and Bravo. Over.
Roger. I'm still thumbing through my book trying to find out how to do this.
It's all right.
Houston, will you give us a call when you think we've spent enough time waiting?
That's affirmative. We'll tell you.
Hello, Jack. This is Charlie Brown.
Go ahead, Charlie.
We're in the process now of commencing scientific experiment Sugar Hotel Alpha Victor Echo. And it's going to be conducted like all normal human beings do it.
Atta boy. Roger. We copy. That'll impress the folks in Pago Pago.
I don't know whether we're all going to make it. We're going to take a look at it one at a time, and we may decide that we'll have one test subject.
Roger. I hope well get a chance to take a look at that on TV tonight, or tomorrow.
You will for sure. We'll have it recorded for posterity also.
Roger. Can't be worse than fiber glass.
Would you believe what the shaving cream packed at 14.7 looks like when you open it up a 5 psi?
Yes. Bet that looks colorful.
It's white, but colorful.
And, 10, Houston. We haven't come up with any better ideas on stowing that hydroxide canister. We want to make sure it's well protected, doesn't get damaged, so the only suggestion we've now got is to either find a place for it or have a big Sunday dinner and pack it in the L-3, or take the stuff out of L-3 and put it somewhere else, and pack the container in there. That's it. Over.
OK.
If you come up with a different location, we'd like to know what it is, so we can tell RETRO.
We'll let Gene hold it on his lap.
We'll find someplace for it and let you know, Jack.
OK. Thanks.
Houston, this is 10. The test is proceeding very successfully.
Roger. Copy. Just as planned.
Say, Tom, are those Navy guys getting themselves properly configured to keep up this immaculate Navy image? Over.
He's off the headset right now, configuring.
Jack, I hope you got John and my shoes done early enough to get sent out to the ship.
I was going to say I wondered if you guys had a set of whites up there, or something like that. Maybe you've got some of those short pants they wear around.
Houston, how does that look to you for 20 minutes?
Wed like to hold off about another minute to complete the dump.
OK, 10. It's complete. You can start PTC now.
Thank you.
Just to Break the monotony of this PTC, we're going to roll left this time.
OK. Copy left-hand pattern.
Apollo 10, Houston. Since you're rolling left this time, we'll have to give you some new High Gain angles and here they are: pitch minus 50 and yaw 90. Over.
Roger.
I'm afraid we may have messed this one up. It looks for some reason like we got an operator error when we punched that last button, and it started to rate and went back some way or other.
It looks all right down here, 10.
OK. But there was a lot of jet firing in there when I was trying to initiate the - to start this thing while I was making the entries, which I don't understand.
You probably just have a right-handed spacecraft and he doesn't want to go that way.
Houston, can you check and see that the deadband is opened up? I think it is.
Stand by one.
We've got you in wide deadband. We don't see anything different than the way it's supposed to be.
OK, Jack. The only thing that I notice is that we're starting with both rates in both the - pitch and yaw a little and we're a little further off than we usually are by this time in the PTC. Usually it's gone for a couple of hours before it gets out 5 degrees.
Yes. We're copying that too, but what I'm saying is, you did everything right.
OK.
10, Houston. You call?
10. Negative. Houston, 10. Do we have Goldstone acquisition? Over.
Apollo 10, Houston. We're off Madrid right now and expect to get Goldstone about 171 30 Over.
171 30. Roger.
Apollo 10, Houston. We'd like you to turn the H2 tank heaters off and tell us what position they're in at this time. Over.
Stand by. We're kind of scattered all over the spacecraft. H2 tank heaters are in Auto 1 and 2, and well turn them off at this time.
Roger. Thank you.
The fans are both on - on. Over.
Roger. And fans on. Leave them on.
Roger.
Apollo 10, Houston. We weren't able to get High Gain the last time around. Want you to confirm that you are in the Reacq mode on the High Gain. Over.
OK. We're in Reacq, now. So we were We were in Auto before.
Roger. We copy, Tom. Thank you.
Roger. What angles do you want for Reacq? Over.
10, that's pitch minus 50 and yaw 90. Over.
Pitch minus 50 and yaw minus 90, right?
Make that yaw 90 - plus 90?
Roger. Your yaw is 90 and pitch is minus 50. Over.
Roger, Tom. Pitch minus 50 and yaw 90.
Roger.
Apollo 10, Houston. We'd like at this time to terminate the hydrogen purge in fuel cell 1. Turn off your hydrogen purge line heaters and take fuel cell 1 off main A and main B. Over.
Roger. Will do.
Hello, Houston. This is 10. I've got the purge stopped on fuel cell 1. I took it off the main buses, and the hydrogen purge line heater is off. However, my indicator still shows Full Scale High in fuel cell 1 for hydrogen flow rate. Can you confirm that the purge has stopped?
Stand by one.
Roger, 10. We're indicating that the purge is not terminated, just like you are. Stand by.
Apollo 10, Houston. Let's try cycling the fuel cell 1 purge switch through all positions, then off. Over.
OK.
Houston, I get an indication that I do come off - during this whole purge, I was Full Scale High. And I did get an indication when I'd come back off the H2 purge position. And I'm coming off of Full Scale High right at about 0.20 pounds per hour. And I go back up to the fuel cell H2 purge, and it goes Full Scale High again. So I'm getting some indication in the indicator. And I know the indicator's on because it works OK on the other cells.
Roger. Understand you're getting intermittent momentary drop and then back Full Scale High.
Yes, Jack. When I actually go to the purge ON position in hydrogen, she'll go Full Scale High. And when I go to Off, it comes back down to the maximum calibrated position, which is 0.20. And as I'm watching it now, it appears to me like it's dropping off very, very, very slowly. I think we may have it OK if we watch it for a while. I think it's dropping down now.
Roger, 10. We confirm it's certainly coming down now. We'll watch it for a short time here.
Apollo 10, Houston. We'd like to get a little bit of - a little better handle on what's going on in the H2 tanks, so we'd like you to make sure the fans are off in both H2 tanks and the heaters in Auto for both H2 tanks. Over.
OK, Jack. We've got the fans off now and the heaters in Auto. Is there something unusual going on? You looking at the total quantity?
No. We had reason to believe that one of the heaters may have stayed on one tank a while ago.
OK, fine. My hydrogen purge now is coming down to 0.05. My flow rates are excellent. It's going to hit zero.
Roger. We confirm that.
Yes. I don't think you heard me earlier, but the experiment is proving to be a three-way huge success and you can pass on to the Governor of Pago Pago that we're ready to kick up our heels.
Roger. We'll assure that you're probably escorted there, to Pago Pago. And the experiment came off successfully. Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
It really did, Jack. It came off very well, as a matter of fact.
Just like everybody thought.
That's right. Just like we expected.
Houston, this is 10. Over.
Go ahead, 10.
Roger. Wonder if we shouldn't knock this off. This seems to be a little too much rates here.
Say again. Over.
I'm wondering if you shouldn't knock this PTC off, and do some star landmark or something.
OK, 10. This is Houston. Why don't we knock off the PTC now and start working on the P23 again. Over.
OK. Because it'll take us that long to get started on it anyway.
Right.
Hello, Apollo 10. Houston. We'd just like for you to turn both H2 Cryo tank heaters Off. It looks like they're stuck on in the Auto position. Over.
OK, Charlie. They're off.
Roger.
How are you today?
How are y'all?
We's fine.
And, 10. Houston. We'd like you to verify that the Cryo fans are off also. Over.
Yes. They're off, Charlie.
Roger.
Apollo 10, Houston. Bruce and I are just sitting here looking at your weather tomorrow. It looks like it's going to be about 1,800 scattered, 15-knot winds at 5-foot seas. Beautiful day out there, and it's a beautiful day in Houston here today with about 90 degrees. There's so many people on Clear Lake you can't even see the water. Over.
Roger, Charlie. Thanks for the weather report. John's getting started on his optics calibration at this time. Over.
Roger. We see that. Thank you, Tom.
And, also, all three of us shaved today just using a very new technique called shaving cream and a razor, and it worked beautiful. Over.
Roger. That's what Jack passed on to us, Tom. That's really good news. Thanks a lot.
Hello, Apollo 10. Houston. John, could you pause for about - just 5 more seconds on the Noun 49? You're a little too speedy for the guys.
Roger.
Houston, that completes the sightings.
Roger, 10. Thank you much. Out.
While we've got a couple of minutes here, is there anymore news out today?
Say again.
I said, we got a couple of minutes here to listen. Is there any news today of any sort?
Stand by. We'll - -
We heard some news early this morning.
Stand by. We'll see if we can get you something.
Hello, 10. Houston. John, your marks put you within 10 miles of MSFN's best estimate of... perigee. And it was very good. PAO is coming up with some news for you. We'll have it for you in a little while.
OK.
Yes. But is it good enough, Charlie?.
Roger. Everybody's real satisfied with your marking. Over.
Well, I ain't too happy with it.
Let me get you some exact figures. Stand by. I'll talk to FIDO.
Hello 10, Houston. John, you're improving your perigee from set to set. We feel like, on the next set, it'll be very close to a MSFW prediction. Right now, we have 15 nautical miles for a perigee, and you're coming up with 5. Last time - That's a 35-mile improvement over the last set of marks. Over.
That's a step in the right direction, huh?
Roger that.
Charlie, what I want to do when I finish this next set is go through P37 for the ignition time of the burn and see what it says I ought to do. Would that be fair?
Roger. That's affirmative.
Hey, Charlie, where do you estimate Snoopy is these days?
Stand by, Gene-o.
10, Houston. FIDO hasn't updated his estimate since the last time we passed it up. He'll work you out one, and we'll pass it up in a little bit.
OK. Thank you.
Hello, Apollo 10. Houston. Could you give us a Verb 74? We'd like to look at your erasable.
You got it, Charlie.
Roger.
Why don't you fix anything I messed up in there while you're at it.
Roger. We can't find anything you've messed up. It's all looking great.
Listen, as many times as I punched them buttons, if theres not something wrong, it'll be a miracle.
OK.
Houston, Apollo 10. Over.
Go ahead, 10.
Roger. We have reached low enough to start PTC this time?
That's affirmative.
OK, Charlie. I think we've got a good one going this time.
Roger, John.
It doesn't have any of the rates in pitch and yaw like we started out with last time.
Roger. This thing's been working really good since - ever since the first thing.
Well, last time we did one, we did one to the left and it got out of hand and went into deadband - spent about the entire hour and one half in the deadband.
Oh, that's a new one on me. I hadn't heard about it.
Yes. I don't know what caused it; maybe some way I pushed the buttons wrong. Anyway, we had rates when we started into it, which is very peculiar.
Roger.
This thing sure - The guy that thought that up was really smart. Was it anybody back there in the back room?
Yes. I think it was the CMS procedures and the SPAN guys back there that - or AGC or whatever they call themselves that came up with it. Looks - I got it in the checklist so we'll go pass it on to the other guys.
That's just - Boy, that's just great. Looks like it saved you about 100 pounds a mission.
Roger. Hey, 10, We're considering a slip in the midcourse a half hour to give FIDO another half hour's tracking so he can get a little bit more confidence in his solution. If that's agreeable with you guys, we'd like to proceed that way. Over.
OK with us.
OK. We'll plan then about 177:20 for the midcourse.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 10. The world is just coming around in our left window, and it's really starting to get big now. Over.
Roger, 10. We got you out about 150,000 miles right now.
Roger, Charlie. When I say big I mean big compared to when we were around the Moon. Over.
Roger.
Still looks like the North Pole has that socked in solid cloud deck. It's been there ever since we launched. Over.
Roger. We copy, Tom.
Houston, Apollo 10. We're taking documentary sequence and still photos about every 4 or 5 hours of both the Moon and the Earth, so we should have a pretty good history of how they look all the way back. Over.
Roger. Thanks a lot. I'll pass that on to Jack.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10.
Go ahead, 10.
Roger. Are you working with Goldstone now, Charlie? Over.
Roger. We just had a handover to Goldstone, Tom. Over.
Roger. We're sitting up here and we have already gone through our entry-state - our entry phase for tomorrow and were just loafing here. And if you'd like to see what three clean-shaven looking individuals look like after 7 days, we could crank up the tube for you and also show you what the world looks like as it starts to grow, and the Moon really starts to shrink away. Over.
Roger. Stand by. See if we can get the network up. We'd like to see what you look like after yesterday's view of John down there with his patch on and almost we thought the camera was going to break. So, we'd like to see what you look like all fresh, Tom.
OK.
And, Tom, we just - the PAO people just said that they were in contact with your mother and she's doing great and in great spirits and following the flight very closely.
Real good. Tell them I sure appreciate it and thanks a lot. Over.
Roger.
10, Houston. The network is working on the - see if we can get the lines up from Goldstone. Stand by.
10, Houston. It'll take us 30 minutes to get the lines up so we can see it back here, but Goldstone is configured to record. You can transmit now. We have the High Gain, and we'll look at it in 30 minutes. Over.
OK. I'm looking ahead in their Flight Plan. The next thing coming up is 174 and we are in no hurry here. When you get the lines up, we'll shoot it to you live. Over.
OK. That's fine, Tom. We'll give you the word.
OK. Thank you now.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Go ahead, 10.
You might pass on appropriately that our CSM 16-millimeter camera finally failed. It's been trying for 2 days, and it just finally gave up the ghost. The fuse has been changed, but it just won't accept any cartridges and will not run at all. I'm using the 75-millimeter lens we have in the Command Module on the LM's 16-millimeter camera. This combination works, although I appreciate the fact that the masking for the lens might be inappropriate, but it's the last ditch effort. That's all we have left.
Roger. Understand. Your CSM 16-millimeter has failed and you've taken the 75-millimeter lens off the LM camera - correction - Command Module and put it on the LM camera. Over.
That's affirmative. I just wish you'd - It's awful frustrating, Charlie. I wish you'd pass those words on appropriately.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 10. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger. We're looking at Florida through the optics. The Cape's open today. Looks like y'all may have some clouds out there, little scattered clouds around Houston. Is that right?
It was like that when we came in 4 or 5 hours ago - correction - about 3 hours ago, John. Let me see if anybody's been outside lately.
Oh, it's no real problem, we're just sightseeing. Boy, it's a beautiful view. You can see the subsolar pointing's in the Gulf of Mexico right about between the Yucatan peninsula and Mexico proper. And with these optics, I can look all the way into South America as far south as Chile.
Sounds great. Not much happening in the world today. No real significant news to pass on this afternoon. We've got the ball scores and that's about all; I can read you up those. We've got about 10 or 12. In the National League: Cincinnati 7, Montreal 2; Atlanta 4, Phillie 1; St. Louis 4, LA 0 - after four innings; San Diego 7, Chicago 1 - after four; New York 1, Pittsburgh 1 - after seven and one-half; Houston 5, New York 3 - after six and one half innings. In the American League: Detroit 10, California nothing; Seattle 3, Cleveland 2; Baltimore 5, Oakland 3; Kansas City 3, Washington 2; Boston 1, Chicago 0; Minnesota 2 to 1 in the first game and 2 to nothing over New York in the second game - after five innings. Gary Player's leading the Atlanta Classic and A. J. Foyt won the pole position yesterday for the Indy 500 with something like a 170-miles-an-hour average. Over.
Wow!
Hey, that's - That's dangerous work, babe. That's too fast.
Roger. You want to be on your way to getting airborne at that speed, I think.
You want to have wheels in the...
10, Houston. At 173 hours and 10 minutes, you'll be 100,490 miles out. Velocity relative to the Earth of 6,498 feet per second. You'll be 109,847 miles from the Moon. Velocity relative to the Moon is 5,776 feet per second. Your sunset time is 191 19 55. And your sub-satellite point is at 173, will be between Caracas and Panama. Over.
Roger. We got those down, Charlie.
That's how it looks, Charlie. I can tell we're directly between Caracas and Panama. That's what you said, wasn't it?
That's affirmative.
It's quite obvious up here. Next time we go on one of these trips, we're going to take that big display down there with us.
OK. It's real pretty today. We got blue background and yellow lines and a green spacecraft and an orange Snoopy just dancing around up on the top of the board. FIDO's really outdoing himself.
Every time we make a successful water dump, does he light up?
Oh boy; the top of his head just glows. You ought to see him.
I wish I could.
Yes. I bet that's a great sight down there. Over.
It really is. He's been grinning the whole flight. He's going to be impossible to live with. 10, a little update on the Atlanta Classic. Bert Yancey and Gary Player are now tied for the lead with about six to play on the last round.
Very good. Thank you. They'll all be coming to Houston here before long.
Yes. Just a couple of weeks. It should be fun.
Hello, 10. Houston. We'd like you to leave the H2 Cryo heaters off until sleep period tonight, and at that time we'll bring on one fan to stir them up. And that should bring the pressure up all right. Over.
OK, Charlie.
Hello,10. Houston. Hey, Tom, it looks like it's going to take us an hour or more to get building 8 cranked up on the color converter. We're configured for black and white, if you want to give us that. We can look at the color later. Over.
OK. Stand by one.
Roger, Charlie. We'll just hold off because you will be able to see more of the United States, the longer we wait here.
Roger. We'll get building 8 cranked up, and we'll let you know then. Over.
OK. We've got the optics calibration coming up. I think about 173 to 174. pardon me...
Charlie, if it's going to be more than an hour, let us know, will you, because that will be pushing into P23.
Roger. We copy, Gene-o. We'll give you a word.
Actually - actually you know, 45 minutes or an hour - 30 minutes to an hour would be a little bit better because more of the US continent will come into view at that time.
Roger.
It's really beautifully clear - clear down there right now. It's just tremendous.
I can almost make Tracy splashing around in the back yard.
I bet you that's what she's doing this afternoon, too, boy. It's about, as I said earlier, about 90 to 93 degrees out there. And we concur on holding off - We should be ready to go in an hour. Over.
Okey doke.
