Honeysuckle, this is Houston Comm Tech, 1 2 3 4, 4 3 2 1, give me a short count.
This is Honeysuckle on GOSS, 1 2 3 4 5. 5 4 3 2 1.
Roger, thank you.
Roger.
(Bugle call)
Hello Apollo 10. Reveille. All hands heave out and face up! Sweepers, man your brooms! Clean sweep down fore and aft! Take all trash and garbage to the fan tails! Standing by, this is Houston.
Oh, I love you. Where did you learn that kind of noise.
It's Navy noise.
That's what I mean. Hey, you get a DS, that's 30 minutes early.
Negative on that.
Huh?
I want to get you up because it's your last day to enjoy out there and I don't want you to miss anything. How you guys feeling today?
Hey babe, I've been looking out that window all night long, so you ain't - you know I was waiting for that noise anyway. How are you?
Hey, real good. Looks like you have been up for a little while.
Yes, off and on. Off and on. It gets pretty anxious up here with that world getting so big. It's beautiful, babe, it really is.
You look like you're just a hair over 50,000 out now, Gene-o.
50 grand huh, now? Beautiful!
Hey, why don't you guys come on home today?
You know, I think we will.
What have you been doing? Taking lessons from Jack or something? I didn't know you knew that kind of music.
Jack doesn't know what it means.
Oh, here you come, Joe. Oh, my God, you're about - you're about ¾ the size of my side window, you're less than a full Earth. You're curved over at the poles which means we're going behind you which is good, and, oh my golly, are you getting big and beautiful, babe. I never thought I'd say that of you, but you sure do look good.
You been gone too long.
Let me take a look in the monocular and find out where we are.
Joe, I'm looking at the Pacific and Indian Ocean, here. I've got the whole continent of India and Asia and coming over the horizon, it appears to be Africa. Beautiful.
OK. You got a pretty good looking weather forecast for your recovery area. It looks like about 18,000 scattered, 10,000 broken, high broken, 10 miles and the wind's out of the east-southeast at about 12 knots. The waves are 4 feet, 5 seconds. 81 degrees, and it says widely scattered showers, but you can probably get a better handle on that from up there.
OK, Joe. What's the present weather?
We're getting it now, Gene-o.
Joe, tell Captain Cruse to put it into the wind. We'll be down there in about 6 hours.
Say again, Gene-o.
Tell Captain Cruse to put it into the wind and we'll be onboard in about 6 hours.
OK. We'll tell him.
Apollo 10, this is Houston. The weather - current weather, is just about the same as the forecast. It looks like it may be getting a little bit better. It looks like they're going about 2,000 scattered high-broken now.
And the sea state?
Sea state's 4 feet and 5-second intervals.
Sounds good, Joe.
OK. I'm going to sneak out of here and let the Marines take over. I'll see you guys a little later.
Joe, thanks for everything, babe. We'll see you back at home.
Roger that.
Good morning, Apollo 10. Just got off the gate. I wanted Joe to give you that reveille because I figured that if I gave it to you, you'd consider it a harassment.
Oh, Jack, you're just too much.
Jack, after 8 days, I got to make a public announcement. You're really a great guy, it's just your choice of services.
I think you're talking about the oldest fighting service in the country and the best in the world, aren't you?
And watch out for those lightning bolts.
You're talking about that gate-guard branch of the U.S. Navy.
I guess you're right, Jack. I don't know what the Navy would do if it wasn't for the Marines existence.
Don't forget your astrocast from yesterday. It's the same today.
Yes, and I'm not going to say anything about anybody today. This has got to be a good day.
Roger.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Roger, 10.
Jack, the LM CO2 canister is in the sleeping bag with the suit on the right-hand side, and it's at the foot of the sleeping bag, right next to A6.
Roger. Copy. Thank you, Gene.
Apollo 10, Houston. If you're eating breakfast and got time to listen, I've got some newspaper reports; otherwise, I've got some PADs, and so forth. Over.
OK. Go ahead, Jack; we'll listen.
OK. One technical item first, the hydrogen tank fans: we'd like number 1, Off, and number 2, On. Over.
Number 1s coming off and number 2's on.
OK. The Orange Bugle. Pasadena, California: Scientists have found minute forms of life on a volcano-racked Antarctic island. They believe it much like the polar regions on Mars. Dr. Roy E. Cameron, Jet Propulsion Laboratory microbiologist, said in a report released Monday that algae, fungi, and bacteria had started to grow in lava rubble a year after Deception Island was rocked by volcanic blasts in December 1967.
Kansas City: The weather bureau Sunday night said that it had received many calls from people in Missouri and Kansas inquiring about a bright object seen to the left of the Moon. Many thought it possibly might be the Apollo 10 on its return trip to Earth. At first a recording from the weather bureau informed callers the bright object was the planet Mars but amateur astronomers in Kansas City said it was the planet Jupiter. In St. Louis, the weather bureau said it had been advised by the president of the Astronomical Society of St. Louis that the bright object near the Moon is definitely Jupiter.
Aboard the USS Princeton: About $750,000 is being spent on live color television of Apollo 10's Monday splashdown in the Pacific. But the networks are uncertain about the quality of the pictures. The pictures will be beamed by communications satellites to Brusterflat, Washington. From there they will be transmitted by microwave circuit to New York. The trouble is nobody has ever tried to send a picture that far says Carl Hoffenberg, a National Broadcasting Company producer assigned to the TV pool aboard this prime recovery ship.
Washington: President Nixon celebrated the sixth anniversary of the signing of The Organization of African Unity Charter in a colorful diplomatic reception Sunday evening and promised to work for the future progress and prosperity of that continent.
London: Two Soviet Scientists Sunday congratulated the Apollo 10 astronauts for contributing to man's knowledge of space. Soviet astronomer Nikolai Kartochev said on the Moscow radio's English service, "I should like to believe that the American Moon flight and the Soviet Venus probes will promote further progress in space exploration. I wish the crew of Apollo 10 successful completion of their space mission." Professor Ela Messovitch, a Soviet space researcher, said on the same broadcast, "Soviet and American space probes are advancing world science."
In the sports news, in baseball: Atlanta 4, Phillies 1; the Astros licked the Mets 6 to 3, having won 17 of the last 21 games; I don't think you want to hear about the Cubs; San Diego took a double-header from the Cubs - correction - San Diego 10, Cubs 2 - first game, Cubs 1, San Diego nothing in the second game. And in the golf world, Atlanta: Bert Yancey, America's lone hope on a day dominated by foreigners, sank his third consecutive birdie putt on the second hole, in a sudden death playoff Sunday, to edge Australian Bruce Devlin for the Atlantic Gold Classic's championship. Yancey and Devlin both sank 10-foot birdie putts on the final hole of regulation play to post matching 11-under-par 277s that enabled them to finish one stroke ahead of South Africa's Gary Player, who also closed with a birdie, and to put them into a sudden death playoff. Both had three-under-par 69s in the final round. And that's the news.
OK, Houston. This is 10. We just picked up three more guys. We've got the suits stowed flat. The CMP suit is under the left couch with the helmet on it up in the - excuse me - up in the right couch with the helmet on it, as per directed yesterday, in the sleep bag. The LMP suit and the CDR suit are under the center couch, stowed as per directed by the North American document that shows one suit with its head stowed footward, the other head stowed toward the head of the couch with the hat on the top of it. Over.
Roger. Copy. Thank you.
And, Apollo 10, Houston. We have another bit of information here. Spacecraft 106 had a harness which would not release after latching, and the recommendation in your case is to, if you have time and can't get one released, to take it apart at the harness adjusters, or if you have to get out of it in a hurry keep a pair of scissors handy nearby to cut the straps, and both of these methods have been attempted and verified to work. Over.
Do you mean which wouldn't let go at the buckle? Over.
That's right.
I'll be darn! How about that. Do you know which harness it was?
No. I don't, but I can attempt to find out here.
Apollo 10, Houston. We will make midcourse 7. It will be approximately 1½ feet per second in order to bring the g-level down. Over.
OK, Jack.
Houston, this is Apollo 10. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger. When you give us this new REFSMMAT and we go to realign to it, can you give us that attitude which we will be able to avoid the prospect of gimbal lock Program Alarm to maneuver to, to do the realign? Over.
Roger. I understand you want some angles to avoid the Program Alarm.
Yes, sir.
And some good angles to see the stars.
Roger. Stand by. We'll get...
If possible about 180 from the Sun.
OK. Thank you.
And, 10. That lap belt business. We don't know which seat that occurred in, but it was in spacecraft 108. Over.
OK. Well that's no problem then. That's spacecraft 108's problem.
Roger. I wasn't sure that I gave you the right number. But we just wanted to alert you to this potential problem that arose.
Houston, according to my star chart, that thing out beside the Moon is Jupiter.
Roger. Then the expert from St. Louis is correct, right?
Also, according to the optics that little rascal has about three or four Moons running around it right now that you can see through the optics.
Roger.
Or maybe it's a fleet of - maybe it's one great big spacecraft with a fleet of a bunch of little ones. I guess we'd better not put that word out.
Yes. Like somebody said before, you guys have been up there too long.
Hello, Houston. Apollo 10.
Morning, Tom.
Roger. Say, how did the Soviet Venus probe go? Did it land OK? Over.
Say again, please.
Roger. What about the Soviet Venus probe? Did it land all right? Over.
Let us research that and get some word.
See if you can find out anything about the temperature measurements.
Stand by on the Venus probe: we've got a - some super sleuths working on that.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Go ahead.
Jack, you still want us to cycle the H2 and O2 fans, or just leave them in this configuration.
Apollo 10, Houston. Leave the H2 tank - or the tank fan configuration about the same as it is except that we'd like you to stir up the O2 tanks for a minute or so. Over.
OK. Thank you.
Hello, Houston. This is 10.
Roger I knew it was you calling.
Oh, yes. In addition to those other angles that John was talking to you about earlier, can you gin us up some TV angles, please?
Roger. I've got the TV angles right here. We'll get John's angles - oh, about the time we have the TV pass - but you ready to copy?
Yes. Go ahead.
OK. TV at 186:50, left-hand side window, looking at the Earth. Roll is all balls, pitch is 090, yaw is all balls. And your High Gain angles will be plus 18 degrees in pitch, and 268 degrees in yaw.
Jack, what will our distance from the Earth and relative velocity be placed, at that time?
Stand by one. We'll extrapolate that.
OK, Houston. This is 10 again. The lithium hydroxide canister, for purposes of determining the c.g., is butt up against A6, between A6 and A11. It's wedged in there and the half a bag of water is stored in A5. Only it's 25 percent of that half bag of water is probably going to be bubbles. I don't know how you weigh that.
Roger. We got some experts here that can figure out how much the bubbles weigh.
OK. And it's half - half filled with water.
Roger.
They don't hardly weigh more than the water at zero g.
Gene, this is Houston. At 186:50, about TV time, you're going to be at 38,435 miles. And your velocity will be 10,402 feet per second.
Finally starting to pick up a little.
Yes, you're getting there. You just crossed the 10,000 foot per second mark right now and you're really starting to move out now.
We were going so slow there for a while, Jack, I thought we were about to stall out. Over.
Yes. I was kind of wondering about all of that mathematics and automechanics, you know. I thought maybe you were going to fall through this time, but it looks like it's going to hang in there.
OK, Houston. On the upper hatch, there is considerable water up there, and I guess if I was going to design a water separator, this would be a good place to put it.
Roger. We copy.
Apollo 10, Houston. On the Venus probe, Venus 5 landed on 16 May. Venus 6 landed on 17 May. Both were launched in January, 6 days apart, as you recall, and Soviet Scientists say that they are fully satisfied with results. Each probe has returned much new information which indicates and I quote: "Man will never go there" unquote. Their probes made a soft landing, lasted about 30 minutes after landing, measured a temperature of 537 degrees Fahrenheit. Over.
Roger. We'll look into the manned aspect later, but the crew of Apollo 10 wish you would give them our congratulations on their total engineering and scientific success. Over.
Roger. Copy. Congratulations to the Soviets on their engineering success with the Venus probes.
Apollo 10, Houston. I have a Flight Plan update.
Go ahead, Jack.
OK. At 189 plus 10 hours, we'd like you to read out the Command Module RCS temperatures off the system test meter. Because if preheat is required, we'll want to bring fuel cell 1 back on the line. And at 189 plus 20, we'll reservice the primary evaporator, using 3 minutes of water - 3-minute service. And I have a change to your entry checklist, as a result of the fuel cell situation. And the change is on page E-Echo 2-2, step 6, line 12, change fuel cell 2 main A and B Off to read instead, fuel cell 1 main A and B Off. And in addition we're standing by for your crew status reports and we'd like some PRD readings before you go through the radiation belt, so we can compare them with those afterwards. Over.
OK. On that - On that checklist now, I just want to make sure, the preceding line says fuel cell pumps, parentheses 3, Off. Corrected line now says fuel cell 1 Main A and B, Off, and then it says verified loads balanced. Right?
That is affirmative. You've got that right.
OK. We'll we have fuel cell 1, Main A, Main B, Off right now.
Roger, 10. If we bring fuel cell 1 on, then this note will apply. Over.
OK, Jack. I'm with you and at 1 - At 189 20, we're going to reservice the Evap for 3 minutes, and at 189 10, we'll read off the CM RCS temps and at that time well decide on fuel cell 1, and stand by for those RAD readings.
Roger.
OK. Crew status check. The CDR took 1 'Lomo' last night and he's going to take a decongestant just precautionary prior to re-entry. The crew slept well last night, from anywhere to 4 to 8 hours sleep apiece. The RadD readings are 26048, 05049, and 15050, and we've completed breakfast. The spacecraft is about 90 percent - 95 percent stowed, and we'll be in the couches here, and probably remain pretty much so there from now on in.
Roger. We copy, Gene. Thank you.
Houston, this is 10.
Go ahead, 10.
I'm going to High Gain Antenna at this time.
Copy.
Hello, Houston. When do you want to conduct a Simplex checks?
Apollo 10, Houston. We're monitoring the VHF and we'll notify when we need VHF check. Over.
OK. Fine. We'll be standing by for it.
Houston, Apollo 10. We're all squared away in the attitude for the final TV pass. Over.
Roger. Copy, Tom.
And, Houston, are you going to be receiving this live at MCC? Over.
Stand by one.
10, Houston. TV will be live here.
OK.
Houston, Apollo 10. We're ready to go with the TV, if you are.
Stand by one.
OK, Apollo 10. Houston. We're going to TV at this time. Over.
OK, Houston. You ought to be starting to pick up a view of the Earth at this time. We're coming to you on our final TV pass. Let us know when you're getting it, Jack.
Roger, Gene. We'll tell you when we're getting it here.
Houston, Apollo 10. How does the screen look? Over.
Roger, 10. We're not getting it yet. Apparently everything isn't quite warmed up yet. Oh, here she comes.
Roger.
She's coming in now.
OK. We're getting TV of the Earth. We see the terminator, and you're getting it centered up pretty good right now.
Good morning from Apollo 10. We're now approximately 38,000 miles from the Earth and we're starting to accelerate rapidly as the Earth's influence becomes felt more and more the closer we get. We're doing now approximately 7,500 miles an hour, and we're 5 hours out from final entry into the Earth's atmosphere. This morning as we look out there we can see part of China, India is the most predominant feature. But also we can see Saudi Arabia, the Gulf of Oman, and the Indian Ocean at this time. And I'll try to give you a little zoom here in on Saudi Arabia and India.
Tom's going to zoom the TV into the Gulf of Oman, now. See what you can see, there. OK. That's full zoom into the Gulf of Oman.
The Gulf of Oman is in the center left part of your picture. How does it look down there?
OK, 10. The globe is about centering the screen at this time, and we can see the darker landmasses and the Gulf of Oman is not apparent to a novice I guess you might say. But it's a beautiful picture and it's coming through well.
Sure is a beautiful picture.
I guess you might say that the artist that painted that one is a master.
I know that looks real good to you guys, and the closer you get the better it looks.
Jack, one reflection that we felt very strong about is when we show you our last telecast here of the Earth, is that we felt very strong about sharing with you some of the adventure, the excitement, the challenges, and the rewards of these 8 days, and through this endeavor, we have hoped that we made you and millions of people of the world, more of a part of the history that's being made in our day and age.
I know everybody around the world has appreciated the TV pictures and all the effort you went to make them good. They've all been excellent and I know it's given everyone a better feeling for what we're actually doing and a better appreciation of the program in general.
OK. Some final just color thoughts as we look in there. India appears to us to be a purplish tan over - I see that the - the Sun - the solar subpoint is right in the Gulf of Oman, now. It is nearly a yellowish bronze. Beyond that we have Saudi Arabia. And Saudi Arabia to us looks a sandy orange. Up to the right, up to the very top of your screen is covered mostly with clouds and this has been the cloud cover that has existed over the northern part of the world ever since we left Cape Kennedy nearly 8 days ago. Down below to the left, the long straight cloud is part of the ITC you can see it, or even down farther than that into the Indian Ocean. But throughout these telecasts, as you can see that the majority of the world is usually covered with clouds. Over.
Roger, Tom. And I think the people around the world are kind of sad to see this to be the last TV shots from space for a while, and I know that they've been very interested and enthusiastic about the pictures and the total flight.
Roger. It's kind of a feeling of the same way for us not to see these beautiful views. Of course, we're certainly looking forward to being back on the good Earth in about 5 hours. And it's really been a fantastic overall flight for us, and some of the experiences that we've had all the way, from liftoff on the Saturn V to seeing the Earth and Moon, the lunar orbit work, and the climb out from the Moon and all the way back. And why don't we take you inside the cockpit for one quick minute?
OK. We have it inside the cabin now, Tom, and weve got a pretty good look at a clean shaven Command Module pilot there.
This is your old retired philosopher speaking to you from outer space, and telling you that TV is on its way back.
Roger. Thank you for those words from the old retired philosopher.
We have a little more work to do and then we'll be back with you and it will sure be great to be back. It's been utterly unbelievable, the mission has. We've really enjoyed every bit of it, so until we see you again, we'll say so long.
OK. We'll pan over on the right side of the cockpit where Commander Gene Cernan...
Hello, Gene. How about saying a few words into the microphone?
OK, Jack. I can't tell you what a rewarding and satisfying experience this has been. It's had its moments, as I said. I'm just thankful that through the medium of television we've been able to share it with so many people in real time. I'm convinced, after this mission, none of them are going to be easy, but nothing is impossible, and I think that the future of manned space flight for now and for many generations to come is going to uncover many, many other new challenges and experiences that we're yet really incapable of even conceiving at this time. It's been a great 8 days, and of course, we're looking forward to get home, and I guess next time we'll be talking to you, seeing you and we'll be back on the ground. Thank you.
Hello there, Skipper.
Good morning. On the final closeout telecast of Apollo 10, we just want to say that it has just been fantastic - the total views that we've seen on this total mission. Again, like Gene pointed out, no mission's easy, and it's been a lot of work. But we've enjoyed the whole thing greatly. And, also, the main thing is, we've been able to - in real time, on some of the major parts of the mission - to share this with you. Like we pointed out, that fantastic view when we left the Moon, Man has certainly progressed a long ways in such a short few years. And how much we're going to progress in the future is left to your imagination. But if we harness our energies and keep our perspective right, the goals are unlimited. And we want to take you back out to show you one last picture of the world - wait a minute - We want to show you a couple of other people that's been with us here. We can't here - we've got the spacecraft fairly well stowed - In fact, we're running about an hour and a half ahead of schedule onboard the spacecraft.
But, as you know, we had the Lunar Module with us, which we nicknamed "Snoopy." And Snoopy the ascent part of Snoopy - is on its way around the Sun now. The descent part is still in an orbit around the Moon, and right now we're in our code nickname of "Charlie Brown." And here's again our little mascot, Charlie Brown, code name for the Command Module, and Charlie Brown has been a real good boy. He's been with us all the way. The spacecraft has been fantastic with respect to its systems and its reliability. It's done a beautiful job for the whole program.
And how does the color look for Charlie Brown down there, Houston?
The color is perfect, Tom; Good morning, Charlie.
And Charlie just wants to say "Good morning" to all you people and it's great to be on the mission. And here is our other friend that went along with us. And for a code name, and as we said, part of him is on the way around the Sun and the other part around the Moon, so he's got quite a split personality. Over.
And here's the code name of our Lunar Module, "Snoopy." And Snoopy was a fairly good dog for us. In fact, he's a fantastic vehicle to fly. But again one thing we want to point out about Snoopy, this is a symbol of a manned flight awareness program and represents the good work and efforts of the hundreds of thousands of people who have made the manned space flight program so successful. And from the crew of Apollo 10, we'd just like to give all those people a salute and acknowledgment, and this is one way of doing it, just by naming a spacecraft after their symbol. And so from the five of us, Gene Cernan, John Young, Tom Stafford, Snoopy, and Charlie Brown, we'd just like to say goodbye. And here's out little symbol for the mission, and we'll see you back on the water in the South Pacific. In fact we should land about 300 miles east of Samoa in approximately 5 hours. So from the crew of Apollo 10, it's been great being with you and goodbye.
Roger. Thank you, Tom. Preparations are well underway for your return and recovery, and we're looking forward to seeing you real soon.
