Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, 11. We've been watching your activity on the DSKY there, and by selecting another major program with a Verb 37 Enter and all that, we show you collapsing the deadband in PTC and having driven the CMC rate from 0.3 degrees per second down to 0 degrees per second, although of course, with all the Auto RCS coils shut off, you're not firing any thrusters. Over. [Pause.]
Okay. What do you recommend?
Well, you can just continue in your present configuration in PTC. However, if you go to turn any thrusters on, the CMC would then try to bring you into an attitude-hold position rather than continuing with the PTC. Over.
Roger. I understand.
Okay. [Long pause.]
And, Houston, we're just looking at you out our window here. Looks like there's a circulation of cloud that's just moved east of Houston over the Gulf and Florida area. Did that have any rain in it this morning?
Roger. Our report from outside says that it's raining out here, and it looks like you've got a pretty good eye for the weather there.
Yeah, well, it looks like it ought to clear up pretty soon from our viewpoint. The western edge of the weather isn't very far west of you.
Okay.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
11, this is Houston. As a result of our venting through the waste management drain, why, we've concluded that your O2 flow rate sensor is, in fact, malfunctioning. I mentioned when we - you talked us through the cyclic water accumulator dump that even though it was moving, probably indicating a higher flow rate, it didn't seem to be indicating a flow rate that's high enough; and based on that and the flow that we're getting right now, we've concluded that the transducer is malfunctioning. We'd like to continue the O2 flow for about another hour, shutting it off at about 31 hours GET, to get the O2 concentration in the vehicle up to - in the vehicles, up to where it will be acceptable for LM checkout. Over.
Okay. Does it look to you like it just has a bias on it? [Long pause.]
Roger, 11. It does seem to be a bias. Looks like it has a fairly high threshold before it starts indicating. EECOM seems to think, though, that for high flow rate purposes, it will still give you a relative indication during the mission. Over.
Okay. We understand. Thank you.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We'd like you to terminate charging on Battery A at GET 30 plus 15. Over.
Okay. 30 plus 15 for Battery A charge terminate.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. If you're free for a minute, I've got some updates to the P37 PADs that we passed up to you yesterday afternoon, I guess. As a result of doing Midcourse Correction number 2, the Delta-V required in the TLI plus 35, 44, and 53 PADs have changed slightly. Over. [Pause.]
Roger. Standing by to copy.
Okay. TLI plus 35 PAD: the Delta-VT should be 7992 instead of 8016. TLI plus 44: it should be 6112 instead of 6141. And TLI plus 53: it should be 8172 instead of 8209. Read back. Over.
Roger. Understand. 7992, 6112, 8172. Over.
Roger. Readback correct. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
11, this is Houston. Goldstone reports they are receiving a TV picture coming down from you all. A little snowy, but a good TV picture. Over.
Roger. We're just testing the equipment up here.
Roger.
Ask them if they can read the numbers.
Okay. Stand by. [Long pause.]
Goldstone, this is Houston CapCom. Over.
Houston CapCom, Goldstone M&O. Go ahead.
Roger. Stand by a minute, Goldstone.
11, this is Houston. What numbers are you referring to? Over.
Well, I guess if they can't see any numbers, why, it's kind of a lost cause.
Negative. Stand by. We wanted to know...
[Garble.]
We wanted to know what numbers, before we asked them.
Okay. I'm showing them the DSKY, and I'd like to know whether they can read what's showing on the DSKY, and also whether they can see P-R-O-G, V-E-R-B, and N-O-U-N. Over.
Roger. Stand by a second.
Goldstone M&O, Houston CapCom. Over.
CapCom, Goldstone. Go ahead.
Roger. Did you copy the spacecraft request?
That's affirmative. I am reading the numbers on our monitor here.
Okay, that's - standby. Roger. That's both the numbers on the DSKY itself, and the little words like Program and Verb, Noun, Computer Activity, things of this sort?
Roger. I can read the numbers clearly. We can't distinguish what the words are, because it is a little snowy.
Roger. Thank you.
Okay. I read Verb, Noun, and Program.
Roger. Do you see - Over in the left hand corner, there's a big square one that says Computer Activity, Comp Activity?
Roger. I see a flash occasionally in that area.
Right. That's the one.
Okay. It looks like he's moved the camera at this time.
Roger.
11, this is Houston. Goldstone M&O reports that they can read the numbers on the DSKY. They can also read Verb, Noun, Program, and see the Comp Activity light flashing. Over.
Very good. Thank you
And they also report you appear to have panned the camera over to another location now.
Yeah, we're going to work on something else.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 11.
Go ahead, 11.
Oh, Charlie. That you?
That's me. How are you there?
Oh, just fine. How's the old White Team today?
Ah, the old White Team's bright-eyed and bushy-tailed. We're ever alert down here.
Ever alert and vigilant. Hey, you got any medics down there watching heartrate? I'm trying to do some running in place down here, and I'm wondering just out of curiosity whether it brings my heart rate up.
Well, they will spring into action here momentarily. Stand by. [Long pause.]
Hello, 11. We see your heart beating.
Okay, Well - look at the CDR's and the CMP's and see if they go up any. We're all running in place up here. You wouldn't believe it.
I'd like to see that sight. Why don't you give us a TV picture of that one.
I think Buzz is trying.
You got it.
Okay. It's coming into Goldstone, Buzz. As Bruce said, we don't have it here in the center. [Long pause.]
I'm afraid this isn't going to help out the PTC very much.
Rog. Rog. Goldstoners say they see you running there, Mike.
Okay.
Ask him what he's running from. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. Mike, we see about a 96 heartbeat now.
Okay. Thank you. [Long pause.]
Well, that's about all that is reasonable, without getting hot and sweaty.
Rog. We copy.
Goldstone should be getting about the best picture of the Earth we can give them right now, Charlie.
Roger, Mike. Thank you much.
We've got a little distortion in the horizontal direction from banding on our monitor. I wonder if they're getting the same thing?
Stand by, Buzz. I'll let you know.
I guess it would be more described as a waviness. [Long pause.]
Goldstone M&O, Houston CapCom.
Goldstone M&O.
Okay. The crew is complaining of some horizontal banding on their monitor. Do y'all see that on the picture?
Stand by.
They wouldn't see anything now. We don't have anything in focus, Charlie.
Roger. He's checking on it. I'll see if they had it earlier. Stand by.
I guess when we're showing the DSKY or when we're showing the Earth might be the better time.
Okay. [Pause.]
Houston CapCom, Goldstone.
Go ahead.
Okay. Our TV people confirm they see this horizontal band.
Okay.
11, Houston. The Goldstone TV people also see the banding when - at the same time y'all do. Over.
Okay. Would they call it a horizontal waviness, instead of banding, maybe?
I'm not talking to them directly. Stand by, Buzz, Let me see what they - how they describe it.
Goldstone M&O, Houston CapCom. Could you put the TV guy on the loop, please?
CapCom, Goldstone. Roger. [Long pause.]
Houston CapCom, Goldstone M&O Net 1.
Go.
The TV people do not have access to Net 1 in that area. Suggest we use Net 2 for that purpose.
Okay. Going to Net 2. [Long pause.]
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. The Goldstone TV guys say that they have some horizontal banding across the upper part of the picture and across the lower part. They would consider the lines just straight, no waviness to them at all. Over.
Roger. Understand. They do seem to distort vertical lines though.
Say again about the vertical lines, Buzz.
Rog. When there's a vertical line, these horizontal bands tend to put small waves in it.
Rog. I copy. He didn't mention that. Stand by, I'll check again. [Long pause.]
Hello, 11. Houston. The Goldstone TV said that when you get a sharp vertical line on the picture, when the horizontal banding goes across, it does appear to bend it slightly. The same as Apollo 10, they said. Looks okay to them. Over.
Okay. Understand. It's not our monitor. It must be the transmitter or the system.
Rog. I guess so, Buzz. We'll have them look into it, and see if they can suggest anything.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We've lost our command interface with Goldstone. We'd like you to switch to Omni Delta. Over.
Roger. Going to Delta.
Rog.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We'd like you to terminate the O2 purge if you have not done so already, and the TV camera people say that the lines are inherent in the camera, Buzz; and it's something that we expected. Over.
Roger. Understand about the camera. Say again about the O2 purge.
Roger. We can terminate the O2 purge at this time. Over.
Oh, okay. Fine. Will do.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. Please select Omni Bravo on board. Over.
[Garbled, may be 'Take on the'] Bravo, Charlie.
Rog.
How's everything going down there? You guys happy with the spacecraft systems?
Rog. Affirmative. Everything's looking really good to us. Over.
Okay. Same here. [Long pause.]
Charlie, how far out can you pick up TV off the Omni?
Stand by.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We're just about to the limits where we can get any kind of picture at all on the Omnis on the TV. It - the picture, I guess, would be just almost zero at this point.
Okay. Well, for this TV program coming up in a couple of hours, you might give some thought to how you want us to stop PTC, if you do, for the best High Gain angle; and also it would be nice if you could stop us at such an attitude that we'd have the Earth out of one of our windows.
Roger, 11. We're thinking about that.
Okay.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We got a - some PIPA biases and gyro drift updates for you if you give us P00 and Accept. Over.
Okay, Charlie. Stand by one.
Roger, 11. The...
You've got it.
Okay. Thank you much. Our biggest drift on the gyros is 0.03 degrees per hour with - on the X-Gyro. On the PIPAs, the Y-PIPA's the biggest and it's 0.006 feet per second so we're just trying to tweak it up. The biggest we have is about one-sigma on both gyros and accelerometers.
Sounds good.
The system really looks good to us.
Glad to hear it, Charlie. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. You can go back to Block. We've got the load in.
Okay. Roger.
Boy, you sure get a different perspective in this thing in zero g. Right now, Neil's got his feet on the forward hatch, and he can, with his arms, reach - all five windows. He can reach down into - the LEB where the overboard drain is. He can practically reach over in the cockpit.
Sounds like Plastic Man to me.
I'm hiding under the left-hand couch trying to stay out of his way.
Be a good idea, Mike.
Houston, Apollo 11. You got a cloud over the Houston area right now?
Roger. We just had a really big thunderstorm here about a hour ago. Couple of storms around the area (garbled). Over.
Yeah, I see one fairly large and isolated one. There are a couple more off to the left, but this one looks [a] fairly good size. It could very well be the one that just passed over you.
Roger.
Yes, and it looks like the Cape has been having a little bit of rain, too.
Roger. The one we had here came in from the west and is moving east - or nearly so, as far as I could tell.
That view through this sextant's fantastic. I can see Alaska right up - right up along the LM, and I'm running the crosshairs right now down the coast of California, the west coast of Mexico, Yucatan Peninsula, up around the Gulf, Florida, Cuba, down Central America, and I'm running into the stop right now, on the sextant.
Roger. It sounds like a pretty fantastic view.
The guys in the weather office at Patrick wanted a report on the tops but I guess all we can say is we're above them.
Rog. We'll pass it on to Metro. [Pause.]
11, Houston. Do you see any predominant weather systems as far as frontal type or any build-up of tropical storm type? Over.
Not any large ones. There are a couple of smaller disturbances. Well, there's one maybe 300 miles north of Cuba, but it doesn't look cyclonic.
Rog.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We got a TV attitude for you and also an update to your CMC erasable load and your alternate contingency checklist, if you could break that out too. Over.
Roger. I'm not sure I caught all of that. Go ahead with what you have.
Roger, 11. If you'll break out your alternate and contingency checklist for the CSM, we got an update to some of the erasable loads on page F2-20. Over.
Okay. Be getting that out, and you can give us the attitude for TV.
Roger, 11. Your TV attitude will be roll 261, pitch 090, yaw 000. High gain angle: pitch plus 28, yaw 271. That puts the left-hand window pointed at the Earth. We recommend exiting PTC with your updated procedure in the checklist. Over.
Roger. We copy roll 21 - 261, pitch 090, yaw 000, High Gain pitch plus 28, yaw 271. And we'd like this with the procedure we have in the book. Over.
That's affirmative. [Long pause.]
Charlie, Apollo 11. I have a couple of questions on stopping the PTC. It seems to me the easiest way to stop it would be - we're essentially, of course, at 0 degrees yaw and close enough to 90 degrees pitch, so it's just a question of stopping at 260 roll, roughly, and - How about for a procedure going Manual Attitude, three, to Rate Command and then, seeing as how our deadband has already collapsed, I'll turn on the panel 8 RCS thrusters, at which time it should stop at whatever attitude it finds itself in. And if I do all of that as it comes up on 261 degrees roll, we should stop right there. Is that sufficient?
Sounds pretty good. Stand by one.
Sounds like it might save a little gas.
Houston, Apollo 11. What page do you want in that revision? Over.
Roger, 11. If you'll turn to page F2-20. Over.
Okay, I have it. [Pause.]
Roger, 11. Under column A on page F2-20. [Pause.] Line 5, line 05, the new data is 01042; line 07, the new data is 00256. Skipping down to line 11, 00070; line 12 is 00042; line 13 is 77730. In column Bravo, lines 3, 4, and 5, which are blank, should be all zeros for line 3; line 4 is 20017; line 5, 20616. Over.
Roger. Page F2-20, column Alpha: 05, 01042; 07, 00256; 11 - 1 - I say again - 11, 00070; 12, 00042; 13, 77730. Column Bravo: 03, 00000; 04, 20017; 05, 20616. Over.
Roger. Good readback, Buzz. And stand by, Mike, on the 'coming-out-of-the-PTC' recommendation. Over.
Okay. Fine. [Long pause.]
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston, with a recommendation on exiting PTCM. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger, Mike. We'd like to see you go to Accel Command on the Manual Attitude switches. Then to turn on the Auto RCS Select switches, and then go Rate Command. That will prevent us from firing jets uncoupled. Over. [Pause.]
Okay. Fine. And I would guess, go Rate Command and roll first, and then followed by pitch and yaw.
Okay. That sounds good if - And when you get to the roll attitude desired, just go Rate Command at that time and it'll stop us right on.
Yeah. I agree, Charlie. That sounds right.
Rog.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston with some more words on exiting PTC. Over.
Roger. Mike, when you were playing with the P37 a while ago and we collapsed the deadband back down, the DAP assumed that the deadband was centered around the new attitude that we happened to be at, at that time. Since then, we've drifted out a couple of degrees in both pitch and yaw from that attitude such that if we did the procedure as we called it up to you of going Accel Command, turning on all of the Auto RCS Select switches and then Rate Command, it would attempt to fly back to the pitch and yaw attitude that it had when the deadband collapsed. We can prevent that by - just immediately prior to going to Rate Command on the Manual Attitude switches, if you cycle the Spacecraft Control switch to SCS, then back to CMC. Over.
Sounds like a winner.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Not going to let these LM guys play with my DSKY any more.
You sound like you'd better protect it. It looks like just about anything that you do with that DSKY is going to collapse that deadband back down.
Understand.
Charlie, we just Stab[iliz]ed to 261 degrees roll, and it looks like whoever figured it out did a good job. It's right there, dab-smack in the middle of window Number 1.
Sounds great.
Looks like Houston's still got a little cloud over it, Charlie.
We've got a constant overcast here in the room. We'll be right there. Stand by.
Of course, a little cloud from up here probably covers 8 or 10 states. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. Some of our guys just came in from outside and said it's pretty clear over the Center here. It's cleared up completely. All the storms have moved on.
Okay, good.
Oh, yeah, Charlie. I can see it through the sextant now, and I can see the coastline is clear. Those clouds are just inland a few miles.
Okay. We copy. [Long pause.]
Looks like the southeast part of the country is all socked in. [Pause.]
California looks nice. The San Joaquin Valley shows up as a real dark spot with a lighter brown on either side of it. You can't tell that it's green. It looks just sort of dark gray or maybe even real dark blue.
How does the Mojave look? Is it clear?
Ah, yeah. As usual.
Rog.
The - around - It looks like there are some clouds just to the west of the Sierras, northeast of Bakersfield a little bit; and crossing over into the Mojave from Bakersfield looks clear; and then as you get on further to the southeast of there, there's a few clouds.
Roger, 11. Can you pick out Edwards in the sextant? Over.
I can see a 104 taxiing out for take-off on the runway.
Hey, man. That's super.
Pretty safe bet there's almost always a 104 taxiing out for take-off. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. Could you pick out anything around Edwards, a dry lake or anything? Over.
Negative, Charlie. I just - I don't have that resolution. But to give you some idea, I can - on the lower Texas coast, I can see - knowing what I'm looking for, I can see Padre Island. I can just barely make out the fact that there's a thin spit of land and then there's a little dark zone which is the Laguna Madre between it and the mainland.
Roger, 11. That's pretty significant. Thank you much, Mike.
Right.
How far out are we, Charlie?
Stand by. I'll give it to you exactly. Looks like around 130,000, but stand by.
Okay. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. The exact range is 125,200 [nautical] miles [231,870 km], and you're traveling 4,486 feet per second [1,367 m/s].
Pretty far and pretty slow. Just past halfway. [Long pause.]
Hey, Charlie, what's the latest on Luna 15?
Say again, Buzz? Over.
Roger. What's the latest on Luna 15?
Stand by. I'll get the straight story for you.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Charlie.
Roger. Latest on Luna 15 - TASS reported this morning that the spacecraft was placed in orbit close to the lunar surface, and everything seems to be functioning normally on the vehicle. Sir Bernard Lovell says the craft appears to be in an orbit of about 62 nautical miles [115 km]. Over.
Okay. Thank you, Charlie.
And also, President Nixon has reported - or declared a day of participation on Monday for all federal employees to enable everybody to follow your activities on the surface. Many state and city governments and businesses throughout the country are also giving their employees the day off, so it looks like you're going to have a pretty large audience for the EVA.
Oh, that's very nice, Charlie. I'll tell Neil about it.
Houston, Apollo 11. We've stopped PTC. We're in the right position. We're setting up for TV.
Roger.
Apollo 11, Houston. We have you stopped in the PTC; attitude looks good to us. Mike, I'd like to get a Comm check. The last couple of transmissions from the spacecraft has been garbled, from especially Buzz. Could you both give me a Comm check? Over.
Roger, Charlie. It's Buzz here. How do you read? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
Roger. You're about four-by with a slight decrease/increase in volume, sort of a wavy volume to it. Over.
Okay. I moved my mike around. How about now? Is this any better?
Hey, that's beautiful right there. Thank you.
Okay, Charlie. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. How do you read me?
Roger. You're five-by. Is Neil on?
1, 2, 3, 4, 5; 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
Roger, Neil. You're five-by.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We got the network all configured for the TV. You can start any time you want. Over. [Long pause.]
Okay, 11. We have a picture. We see the Earth right in the center of the screen. Over.
Roger, Houston. Apollo 11 calling in from about 130,000 [nautical] miles [241,000 km] out. And we'll zoom our camera in slowly and get the most magnification we can. Over.
Roger.
11, Houston. The definition is pretty good on our monitor here. The color's not too [garbled], at least on this set. Could you describe what you're looking at? Over.
Roger. You're seeing Earth, as we see it, out our left-hand window, just a little more than a half Earth. We're looking at the eastern Pacific Ocean, and the north half of the top half of the screen, we can see North America, Alaska, United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America. South America becomes invisible just off beyond the terminator or inside the shadow. We can see the oceans with a definite blue cast, see white bands of major cloud formations across the Earth, and can see coastlines, pick out the western US, San Joaquin Valley, the Sierra mountain range, the peninsula of Baja California, and can see some cloud formations over southeastern US. There's one definite mild storm southwest of Alaska; looks like about 500 to 1000 miles, and another very minor storm showing the south end of the screen near the - or a long ways off of the equator, probably 45 degrees or more south latitude. Can pick out the browns in the landforms pretty well. Greens do not show up very well. Some greens showing along the northeastern - northwestern coast of the United States and northwestern coast of Canada.
Roger, 11. It's a pretty good picture on clarity here. We're having - can you tell us - It appears to us that there are two distinct cloud formations trending east-west, one approximately about along the equator, and one around 30 or so south latitude. Could you tell us exactly where those cross the land masses? Over.
Well, yes. They cross just south of the lower part of Mexico, probably through Central America. That is the equatorial band which we assume to be the inter-tropical convergence zone. The other band, which is about 30 south correctly, seems to appear to join the equator at the far left, or just beyond the horizon on the left edge of Earth, or at least it looks like it's going to join it. We don't have an explanation for that banding.
Roger, Neil. Thank you. It also appears that just to the left of the terminator, up in the northern hemisphere, there's a cloud band trending - a gap in the cloud, trending northwest/southeast. It appears to us that that comes in about over the northern United States, or perhaps the central United States. Is that about correct? Over.
I can see on the monitor the thing you're talking about, but right now I can't get my eye to the window to pick out just where it crosses the shore line.
Roger. [Long pause.]
You guys are doing a good job. It's a real steady picture, here. We're - Clarity is excellent. The color, it's - the clouds are - The whites are distinct. The rest if it looks like, to me anyway on the monitor I'm observing, is a fairly greenish blue is the way I'd describe it. Over. [Pause.]
It appears that the...
Well, we can't observe... [hears Duke] We can't observe much green from the spacecraft.
Roger. On this monitor, the landmasses appear to be just a darker grayish color rather than a brown.
Well, it's true that we do not have the depths of color at this range that we enjoyed at 50,000 miles out. However, the oceans still are a definite blue and the continents are generally brownish in cast, although it is true that they're tending more toward gray now than they were at the closer ranges.
Roger, 11. We've been - I've just been vectored to another monitor and sure enough, the browns are coming in a lot more distinctly on the Eidophor that we have up on our screen in the Control Center. Over. [Pause.]
Okay, world, hold on to your hat. I'm going to turn you upside-down. [Long pause.]
11, that's a pretty good roll, there. [Long pause.]
Oh, that was pretty sloppy, Charlie. Let me try that one again. [Pause.]
You'll never beat out the Thunderbirds. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, Houston. That practice did you some good. It's looking - real smooth roll, there.
Oops! Spoke too soon. [Pause.]
I'm making myself sea sick doing it, Charlie. I'll just put you back right-side up where you belong.
Roger.
You don't get to do that every day. [Pause.]
11, Houston. Could you describe, from your view, the polar cloud cap? It appears to us to extend down the western coast of North America. Would you estimate how far it extends down? Over. [Long pause.]
Trying to fit everybody into the window.
It appears that the cloud cap comes down a little bit below the southern extremity of Alaska.
Roger. [Pause.]
We've - 11, we've lost our picture here, now. [Long pause.]
Okay. Apollo 11, Houston. We've got the picture back now. [Pause.]
Unfortunately, we only have one window that has a view of the Earth and it's filled up with the TV camera, so your view now is probably better than ours is.
Roger. We copy.
11, Houston. If you could comply, we'd like to see little smiling faces up there, if you could give us some interior views. I'm sure everybody would like to see you. Over.
Okay. We'll reconfigure the TV for that.
Roger.
Apollo 11, Houston. It appears to us that we're seeing a view from outside plus a little of the inside. It appears you've taken the camera away from the left window now. Over.
That's correct. We're moving it back and reconfiguring for interior lighting.
Roger. [Pause.]
We can still see the Earth through the left window, and it appears that we can see a floodlight off to the left, either that or some Sun shafting through the hatch window.
It's a floodlight.
Rog.
Now we're coming in. Can't quite make out who that head is.
That's big Mike Collins, there...
You got a little bit of... [hears Duke.] Yeah, hello there sports fans. You got a little bit of me, plus Neil is in the center couch, and Buzz is doing the camera work this time.
Roger. It's a little dark now, 11. Maybe a bigger f-stop might help.
Yeah, that's in work. [Long pause.]
It's getting a lot better now, 11. Mike, you're coming in five-by. I got a good...
I'd have put on a coat and tie if I'd known about this ahead of time.
Is that Buzz holding your cue cards for you? Over.
Cue cards have a 'no'. We have no intention of competing with the professionals, believe me. [Pause.] We are very comfortable up here, though. We do have a happy home. There's plenty of room for the three of us and I think we're all learning to find our favorite little corner to sit in. Zero g is very comfortable, but after a while you get to the point where you sort of get tired of rattling around and banging off the ceiling and the floor and the side, so you tend to find a little corner somewhere and put your knees up or something like that to wedge yourself in, and that seems more at home.
Roger. Looks like Neil is coming in five-by there, 11. Mike, see you in the background. The definition is really outstanding. The colors are good. It's a real good picture we're getting here of Commander Armstrong. We - Buzz, when you take the camera over towards the window where the Sun's shafting through, it tends to blank it out, though.
Yeah, Neil's standing on his head again. He's trying to make me nervous.
Roger. [Pause.]
He's disappearing up into the tunnel, of course, as he would going into the Lunar Module, only backwards.
Roger. We can see portions of the LEB now. The systems test meter panel in the lower part of the picture, or we did have it, anyway.
Okay. And then directly behind his head are our optical instruments, the sextant and the telescope that we use to take sightings with.
Roger, copy. And we see the DSKY flashing with a 6 51. In fact, we can read Registers 1 and 2 quite clearly.
The old High Gain angles telling us which way the Earth is.
Copy. That's a beautiful picture. Clarity is outstanding. [Pause.]
We can also give you the time of day in our system of mission elapsed time. Elapsed time: 34 hours, 16 minutes and umpteen seconds. Can you see that clearly enough, Charlie?
Roger, Apollo 11. We can see it counting up every - every second. We got 34:17:02 now. [Pause.]
Okay. Back to the High-Gain angles.
Roger.
Now we have amputated those. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. It's a - We have a beautiful rainbow there now as you move the camera around. That looks like the star charts coming into view, now. Over.
Yeah. Those are Buzz's two star charts that he is using right now as sun shades over the right-hand window, window Number 5.
Roger. We see the Sun shining in through it behind him and blotting out the equatorial - correction, ecliptic plane, and the stars that you're using for the navigation.
You're right. He doesn't really need the charts. He's got them memorized. They're just for show.
We copy.
While we're pointing up in this direction, we see out our side windows the Sun going by and, of course, out one of our windows right now we've got the Earth. Right behind my window, of course, we have the Sun, because the Sun is illuminating the star charts that we see. This line represents the ecliptic plane and these lines, vertical lines, represent our reference system that the spacecraft is using at this time. As we approach the Moon, the Moon will gradually grow larger and larger in size and eventually it will be in eclipse. It will be eclipsing the Sun as we go behind it, as we approach the Lunar Orbit Insertion maneuver.
Roger, 11. We've - Could you attempt a little bit better focus there, 11? Over. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. That's a lot better on the star chart now. We can make out the ecliptic plane and the planets and the Sun and the Moon as it - as they have gone at various places throughout the ecliptic plane. Over.
Okay, Charlie. [Long pause.]
If we can get some of the wires untangled here, we'll give you a demonstration of how easy push-ups are up here.
11, Roger. Good view of Buzz, there. [Long pause.]
When it gets pretty hard doing it that way, why, we just roll over and do it the other way.
Rog. We copy. We couldn't figure out whether that was a chin-up or a push-up. Just take your choice, I guess. [Long pause.]
Well, it looks like it's probably almost your dinner time down there, Earth. We'll show you our food cabinet here in a second.
11, Roger. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. We see a box full of goodies there. Over.
We really have them, Charlie. We've got all kinds of good stuff. We've got coffee up here in the upper left and various breakfast items, bacon in little small bites, beverages like fruit drink. And over in the center part we have, oh, all kinds of things. Let me pull one out here and see what it is.
Rog.
Would you believe you're looking at chicken stew, here? All you have to do is - 3 ounces of hot water for 5 or 10 minutes. Now we get our hot water out of a little spigot up here with a filter on it that filters any gases that may be in the drinking water out, and we just stick the end of this little tube in the end of the spigot and pull the trigger three times for 3 ounces of hot water and then mush it up and slice the end off it and there you go, beautiful chicken stew.
Sounds delicious. [Pause.]
Yeah. The food so far has been very good. We couldn't be happier with it.
Roger.
Could I borrow that flashlight a second?
The surgeons are saying thank you, there, for that.
And it is sort of down in a dark corner, so we have a flashlight here to help us see things; and if I can let go of it carefully, it'll just hold itself right where it is.
Roger.
As long as it's still, it will.
Apollo 11, Houston. That's a pretty good demonstration. You started off really stable there, Mike. It...
Well, the problem is, no matter how carefully you let go, you bump it just a tiny little bit, set it in motion and once in motion there she goes. Try that again.
It looks fairly stable now with slow rotation. [Long pause.]
Well, so much for the food department. I'm going to close up the store down here.
Roger. We copy.
Charlie, we checked out the cable lengths, and we're thinking we might want to see if we can take the TV into the LM with us tomorrow for part of the time. Over.
Roger. Good show. We'd like to see it if it'll reach that far. Over.
We'll give it a try.
Rog. [Long pause.]
And where I sleep is down underneath this couch.
Houston. Roger.
Slowly sinking into the sack there. [Pause.]
It's really comfortable. [Pause.]
Forgot to give Buzz his flashlight back. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, Houston. Could you give the folks a view of your patch if - on your CWGs? Over. [Pause.]
Stand by one, Charlie; we'll try and give you a close-up.
Rog. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. We have the patch. Could you attempt to improve the focus slightly? Over. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. The scan on the camera makes the - that's a little bit better now. The flashlight seems to flicker, due to the scan on the TV. We can't see the eagle. Now it's a little bit better. Over. Could you open the f-stop a little bit more? Over. [Pause.]
It's open all the way. We're going to have to move Buzz around little bit.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Okay, Apollo 11, Houston. The color is better now. It's coming in. We could attempt a little bit better focus on it. There we go; it focuses a lot better now. We see the eagle coming right in on the lunar surface. Over. That's very good now.
Apollo 11, Houston. That's very good now. We can see the Earth in the background, Apollo 11, and the eagle coming in.
It's probably pretty hard to see the olive branch, isn't it?
Roger. It is.
Well, that's what he has in his talons, is an olive branch.
Copy. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, Houston. We're really impressed with the clarity and the detail that we have in the picture. The colors are - now, it's a really, an excellent picture now that I'm looking at it on our monitor, which is about 12 seconds before the networks can get it out due to the conversion that we have here on our TV converter. The - We're looking at the controls in the display - the main display console and we can see the DSKY up on the panel. Over.
It would be nice if you could take a look at all the circuit breakers; make sure the right ones are in and the right ones are out.
Roger. Big Brother's watching.
And we're glad of it. [Pause.]
Boy, you guys have sure been doing a good job of watching us, Charlie. We appreciate it.
The spacecraft's been beautiful, 11. We've really no complaints at all. Looks - Things are really great. [Pause.]
Can you see this DSKY on the MDC?
That's affirmative. It appears that - can't quite tell what program went P00. We see you punching in a Verb 35, I think it is. Over.
Yeah. Might as well tell the EECOMs or tell the GNC and everybody to hold on to their hat and I'll push the Enter button.
Rog.
We see a real display now. [Long pause.]
That's a good demonstration of how the crew has the interface with the computer, talking to the programs and all that we have in the computer.
Well, that's right, Charlie. Sometimes it tells us things and sometimes we tell it things and mostly it talks to us. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. We just lost our pic - I see we're going back outside now. Over. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. You copy? Over.
Roger. We copy, And as we pan back out to the distance at which we see the Earth, well, it's Apollo 11 signing off.
Roger, Apollo 11. Thank you much for the show. It's a real good half hour. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Out. [Long pause.]
Okay. That's it, Charlie.
11, Houston. We appreciate the show. Thank you very much. Over.
Right.
Apollo 11, Houston. Would you key Error Reset on the DSKY, please? Over. [Pause.]
Okay. We should be straightened out now, Charlie, and back in P00. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 11. How do we stand on this O2 fuel cell purge? You want to go ahead and do that as scheduled in the Flight Plan?
Stand by, 11. Over.
Okay.
11, Houston. You can commence the O2 fuel cell purge now if you'd like. Over.
Okay. Fine. [Pause.]
While Buzz is doing that, I'll change the lithium hydroxide.
Rog.
