Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Good morning, Houston. Apollo 11.
Good morning, Apollo 11.
Nice sleep. Be getting around to the...
How's everything look up here from the ground?
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Roger. Say again, please.
Roger. How do all our systems look?
Roger. They're looking great, and as far as we can tell everything is good from down here. Over.
Rog. Looks like the attitude held up real well during PTC last night.
Yes, it did. We were showing you remaining well within a circle of 10 degrees radius throughout the night. Seems to be working beautifully. [Long pause.]
How's the old Green Team this morning? Did you have a quiet night?
Yeah. It was a very quiet night down here. The old Black Team is complaining they didn't get a chance to make any transmissions. Ron Evans is getting...
Well, we'll be seeing them tomorrow, I guess.
Yeah. Ron's getting to be known as the silent CapCom.
That's the best kind, Bruce.
(Laughter) Okay. [Long pause.]
When you feel up to copying, 11, I've got a couple of small items in the way of a Flight Plan update and your morning consumables update. Over. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11.
Roger, 11. We'd like to perform a waste-water dump at your convenience some time in the near future here. No particular time scheduled. Down there at the time for Midcourse Correction 3, which is about 53:55, we're deleting Midcourse Correction number 3 and all the items associated with it. For your information, the calculated value of the burn for Midcourse number 3 was eight-tenths of a foot per second, that is 0.8 feet per second. Canceling this, if we decide to burn Midcourse Correction-4, this would then give you a burn for Midcourse Correction-4 of 2.0 feet per second. At 53 hours, we have an IMU realign P52. We're requesting that you do this while in PTC, and we plan to continue PTC throughout the day. Over.
- then we'll get to the waste-water dump [garble].
Say again, please. You're cutting out.
[Garble.] Roger. [Garble] for now it looks like [garble].
11, this is Houston. Stand by a minute, please. We're having difficulty receiving you. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Radio check. Over.
Roger, Houston. Read you loud and clear. How me? Over.
Roger. Reading you the same. We did a minor reconfiguration down here. Stand by. Out.
Okay, 11. This is Houston. We switched your Omni antennas as you rolled through the appropriate position. Did you copy the Flight Plan update item? [No answer.]
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over
Apollo 11, go ahead.
Roger, 11. Did you copy the Flight Plan update items? Over.
Roger. How do you read me now, Bruce?
Loud and clear, now.
Okay. The battery charge is in - in the process now and the waste-water dump is in work. MCC-3 has been cancelled. It would have been 0.8 feet per second. MCC-4 now looks like about 2.4 feet per second. At around 53 hours we'll do a P52 in PTC. Over.
Roger, 11. The magnitudes of the midcourse corrections were just for your information, but Midcourse 4 was down around 2.0 feet per second. Again, for your information, on SPS chamber pressure, it looks like your onboard readout of 87 psi corresponds to 92 psi by our telemetry, and your value of 89 on board corresponds to 94. Over. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, Houston. Radio check on a new power amplifier in our transmitter. Over.
Roger. Read you loud and clear. How me? Over.
Roger. Loud and clear. Did you copy my notes on SPS chamber pressure?
Negative.
Okay. Just for your information again, it appears that your readout of 87 psi corresponds to our corrected TM readout of 92 - that's 92 psi, and 89 on board is really 94 psi. Over.
Roger, I got that you were reading about 5 psi low.
Roger. And are you ready for the consumables update?
Ready to copy.
Okay. Consumables update for GET of 46 plus 00: minus 5.5 percent, minus 6.5 percent, minus 2.5 percent, minus 7.5 percent, minus 5.0 percent, minus 2 pounds hydrogen, plus one pound oxygen, and that minus 5.5 percent on the RCS total corresponds to minus 66 pounds. Over.
Okay. I copy those, and I'll give you our percentages now: Alpha, 82; Bravo, 84; Cocoa, 85; Delta, 87. Over.
This is Houston. We copy your percentages, and do you have a crew status report on sleep for us? [Pause.]
Roger. In descending order; 8, 9, and 8. Over.
Houston. Roger. Out.
Houston, we're getting Cryo pressure warning now in the middle of stirring up the [garble].
Roger. We copy.
Houston, Apollo 11. We've got the continent of Africa right facing toward us right now, and of course, everything's getting smaller and smaller as time goes on. The Mediterranean is completely clear. The Sun looks like it's about to set around Madagascar. The equatorial belt of Africa stands out quite clearly. We're seeing a dark green or a muddy colored green, compared to the sandier colors of the southern tip of Africa and, of course, the Sahara northern coast of Africa. There's a rather remarkable cloud that appears in the vicinity of the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. It's just about to go into the sunset now. It is casting quite a large shadow. It's isolated. There don't seem to be any other clouds. The band of clouds near the tropical convergent clouds down around the equator clearly separate the clockwise and the counter-clockwise cloud formations. Over.
Roger, 11. We copy your word description on that. I understand you can see a shadow being cast by that cloud over between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Any estimate on how long that shadow would be? Over.
[Garble.] It looks like it's a shadow. [Garble] coming around to - back that way [garble].
We're getting a lot of background noise now, also. If you will stand by a minute or so until we roll a little further in PTC, I think things will get better.
Okay. It's coming around to the number 1 window. We'll get you there.
Roger, we're hearing you.
11, this is Houston. The noise on the comm seems to have quieted down now. I guess that we've rotated a new antenna into view and probably also the Earth out of view in your window. Over.
Okay. It looks as though the length of the shadow of that cloud is about the same as the width of the Persian Gulf.
Okay. We copy the width of the Persian Gulf, and I guess that all I can give you first hand is a single isolated data point, and that is that it was clear here in Houston this morning. That's a pretty localized observation. As a result of your waste-water dump, it looks like the PTC mode has been disturbed somewhat. We're showing you about 20 degrees out in pitch right now and about 6 degrees in yaw, which is significantly greater, about twice as much - a little more than twice as much as the deviation you had prior to the waste-water dump. We're watching it down here, though, and we'll let you know if we think any corrective action's required. Over.
Okay. Maybe we ought to - next time split that in half, and put half of it on one side and half on the other or something like that.
Yeah. We could do that. We were actually pretty interested in seeing what the effect on PTC would be of the waste-water dump. We don't recall ever having performed a waste-water dump during PTC on previous missions. Over.
Well, now we know.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 11. I'm looking at that cloud now around Pakistan through the sextant, and it appears to be one single cell in the latter stages of development. There is a smaller, more isolated one just to the south...
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We lost you down in the noise on the comm link here about the time you were describing the single-cell cloud formation over Afghanistan-Pakistan area through the sextant. Over.
Rog. It came through a lot clearer through the sextant than with the monocular, and you could definitely tell it was one single cell in the latter stages of development. It must have gone up to over 50,000 feet, though. The eastern Mediterranean is phenomenally clear. You can see all the lakes; the Dead Sea stood out quite well. Over.
Roger. What appears to be the limit of resolution through that sextant from your current position? Over.
Well, I can't see it right now. It's outside the field of view.
Roger.
And, I don't know how you'd really describe the limit of resolution. I'll think about that a little.
Okay. I guess the smallest object that you could pick out looking through it would give us a pretty good hack.
Well, you can see the Nile River going almost up to its source. The lake is obscured by clouds, but you can trace it all the way on up.
Roger. [Pause.]
I guess that's down though, isn't it?
Apollo 11, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We've been working under the assumption that it would take about an hour for the interference from a waste-water dump to dissipate to the point where you could reasonably take star sightings for platform alignment, navigation or something of this sort. If you have a spare minute or two, could you comment on the observation conditions now? Over,
Yeah. Stand by one, Bruce.
Okay. [Long pause.]
My guess would be the telescope's probably pretty useless, but you can differentiate in the sextant between water droplets and stars by the difference in their motions.
Okay, Mike. And I guess that we've still got - what you're saying is that we've still got a lot of water droplets visible, but you can pick them out and distinguish them in the sextant there.
Right. I think so, but Buzz is looking through it now. Just a second.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 11. It looks like at this time the sextant would be quite usable for any alignment. There's actually very few particles drifting by.
Roger, Buzz. How about the telescope? Is it useful now? [Pause.]
Well, it's not quite as useful; it never seems to be. Depending on the position of the Sun, it's got that band that seems to go across the center. I don't think it's because of the waste-water particles that it would lack its effectiveness. Over.
Roger. What - Is this band something that's deposited on the outside of the optics? Over.
No. It's the reflection from the Sun.
Roger.
The Sun bounces off the LM structure. With the LM attached, that telescope is just about useless. Those star charts that MPAD provided us, I think, would be most useful if we had to use the - if for some reason we had to mark through the telescope. We could use those as a guide for what we're looking at and say, 'Well, that bright blob over there has got to be that star because that's the position we're in. But so far, we've been - not been able to pick out any decent star patterns while docked with the LM using the telescope.
This is Houston. We copy.
Houston, Apollo 11. [No answer.]
Houston, Apollo 11. Over.
Go ahead, Apollo 11. [Pause.]
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Houston, Apollo 11. How do your read? Over.
Roger. We're reading you loud and clear.
Roger. Roger. You're coming back a little scratchy. It looks like our O2 flow transducer's gotten a good bit worse. I just looked at it at the last water accumulator cycle, and it just barely registered - barely crept up above 0.2. Over.
Roger. [Long pause.]
11, this is Houston. At the time of your cyclic accumulator stroking, we were on low-bit-rate data, and consequently not receiving the O2 flow parameter. We expect that what you're seeing is probably nominal. That is, it's probably what we would expect from a transducer that's malfunctioning in this fashion. It's probably just going to keep on getting worse like that. Nothing to worry about. We'll monitor things on the ground here. Over.
Okay. It does look like it's gradually degrading to about zilch.
Roger. We copy.
Apollo 11 CDR, this is Houston. Radio check. Over.
Roger, Houston. CDR loud and clear.
Roger. We're reading you the same. Out.
And would you check with FAO and see where that errata sheet is? We haven't been able to locate that.
Roger. I understand it's supposed to be the back page in Buzz's operations checklist.
Okay.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Did you find it? Over.
Roger. We found it.
Roger. And I see you're in P00. If you can give us Accept, we'll uplink a new state vector to you and update the CMC clock. Over.
Okay. You've got it.
Roger.
11, this is Houston. We're through with the uplink. You can go back to Block.
Roger. Back to Block.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We would like to terminate charging Battery Bravo at GET of 51:30. Over. [No answer.]
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We'd like to terminate charging Battery Bravo at 51:30 GET. Over.
Roger. Terminate charging Battery Bravo 51:30.
Roger. Out.
11, this is Houston. We show you terminating Battery B charge. Over. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over
Go ahead, Houston. Apollo 11.
Roger, 11. We show you terminating Battery B charge at about 51 hours, 30 minutes. Over.
Okay.
Roger. Out.
Houston, Apollo 11. Would you like to have both oxygen and hydrogen purge on? Over.
11, this is Houston. Say again. Both what on? Over.
On the fuel cell purge: would you like to see both oxygen and hydrogen? Over.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Affirmative. We request hydrogen and an oxygen fuel cell purge. Over.
Okay. Any preference which first?
Negative. As long as you've got the H2 purge line heaters on.
Okay. I'll go get - Go ahead with the hydrogen then.
Houston, Apollo 11. Over.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. You copy my Noun 93?
That's affirmative. We've got it.
Okay. I am going to go ahead and torque and star angle difference is 0.01, but it's sort of difficult at three-tenths rate. I'm required to use medium speed unresolved, and it's difficult to hold the star centered long enough to get a decent mark on it. [Pause.]
Roger. We copy. It looks okay to us. [Pause.]
Rog.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. I've got the morning news here if you're interested. Over.
Yeah, we sure are. We're ready to copy and comment.
Isn't that 2:30 there?
Roger.
Okay. Go.
Okay. Here we go. The interest in the flight of Apollo 11 continues at a high level but a competing interest in the Houston area is the easing of watering rules. Mayor Louie Welch promises a lifting of lawn watering restrictions if the rains continue. Friday is partly cloudy, and there is a 30 percent chance of thundershowers in the afternoon. In Washington DC, the Senate Finance Committee approved extension of the income tax surtax, but a Senate vote on the bill...
You cut out, Houston. You cut out.
Roger. Where do you hold me cutting out? Over.
Houston, Apollo 11.
Apollo 11, Houston. Over.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. How do you read now? Over.
Loud and clear, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger.
Start after the rains in Houston.
Roger. In Washington, the Senate Finance Committee has approved extension of the income tax surtax, but a Senate vote on the bill currently seems remote. In Austin, State Representative Ray Lemmon of Houston has been nominated as the National Director of the American Society for Oceanography. Lemmon has proposed a study of the possibility of establishing an institute of oceanography in Texas. This would be the first such institute on the western Gulf of Mexico. In Minneapolis, Minnesota, the weather bureau, after recapping today's weather showing a high of 88 and a low of 72, has noted "snowfall: none." From St. Petersburg, Florida, comes a radio report from the Norwegian explorer, Thor Heyerdahl, which said that the crew of his papyrus boat, the Ra, will sail into Bridgetown, Barbados, despite damage from heavy seas. The crew, however, will sleep on an escort vessel. Norman Baker, navigator of the expedition, said the crew was aboard the Ra today repairing damage from storms this past week, which split the footing of the mast. Part of the broken mast was jettisoned overboard, and the vessel was 725 miles east of the Barbados. "It is possible but uncomfortable to sleep aboard the Ra," Baker said in the radio report. "But the purpose of our voyage is not a test of strength or human endurance. That is the reason why the crew was spending nights aboard the escort vessel, Shenandoah, which rendezvoused with the Ra on Tuesday."
In sports, the Houston Oilers are showing plenty of enthusiasm in their early pre-season workouts at Kerrville, and Coach Wally Lemm says he is impressed with the fine group of rookies. National League baseball for yesterday, Thursday: St. Louis 11, Philadelphia 3; Montreal 5, over Pittsburg 4; Atlanta 12, Cincinnati 2; San Francisco 14, and Los Angeles 13. American League: we have Baltimore 3, over Cleveland 2; Detroit 4 to Washington's 3; Minnesota 8 to Chicago 5. Boston at New York was rained out. And in Corby, England, an Irishman, John Coyle has won the world's porridge eating championship by consuming 23 bowls of instant oatmeal in a 10-minute time limit from a field of 35 other competitors. Over. [Pause.]
Roger. I assume Houston didn't play yesterday.
That's correct.
I'd like to enter Aldrin in the oatmeal eating contest next time.
Is he pretty good at that?
He's doing his share up here.
Let's see. You all just finished a meal not long ago, too, didn't you? [Pause.]
I'm still eating.
Okay. Does that - that...
He's on his - He's on his 19th bowl.
Roger. Are you having any difficulties with gas in the food bags like the 10 crew reported?
Well, that's intermittently affirmative, Bruce. We have these two hydrogen filters, which work fine as long as you don't hook them up to a food bag. But the entry way into the food bag has enough back pressure to cause the - the filters to start losing their efficiency. A couple of times, I've been tempted to go through that dry-out procedure, but we found that simply by leaving the filters alone for a couple of hours, their efficiency seems to be restored.
Roger. We copy. [Pause.]
Their efficiency ranges anywhere from darn near perfect to terrible, just depending on the individual characteristics of the food bags we're putting to them. Some of the food bags are so crimped near the entry-way that there's no way we can work them loose to prevent back pressure.
Roger.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Hello, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger, 11 As you've probably noticed, your coning angle in PTC mode is increased substantially as a result of the waste water dump, the fuel cell purge, and natural coupling, so it looks like we are going to have to terminate PTC here in a little while. And we'd like to get your feeling as to whether you're still anticipating trying to send back TV signals from inside the LM. And, if so, we'll try to provide an attitude that you can hold that'll give us High Gain Antenna lock on the Earth during the TV and LM activation period. Over.
Yes, we're still planning that activity if the cord lengths work out all right, and we'll accept those attitudes that you work up for us.
This is Houston. Roger. Out.
When you work up an attitude to get High Gain, is there any way that we could get partial Sun in one of the two LM front windows?
This is Houston. We'll have a look at it.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We have a TV attitude for you if you're ready to copy. [Pause.]
Go ahead. Ready to copy.
Okay. We recommend stopping PTC at GET of 54:45:00, and this should put you at just about the right roll angle. The attitude we recommend is roll 263, pitch 090, yaw 000. This gives you the Earth out of window number 1 in the Command Module and places the High Gain Antenna and the CSM window for TV at your convenience. You will also have the Sun shining in - or shining at the hatch on the LM, and if you take down the window shades you should get some sunlight in. We're recommending wide deadband. Over. [Pause.]
Roger. Thank you, Houston. We'll look at that.
Roger. Out.
Houston, Apollo 11. When we pass the proper roll angle, we're not going to be anywhere near zero degrees yaw. Do you want us to just stop at the angle we find ourselves in and then Verb 49 to the three angles you gave us?
Stand by. [Long pause.]
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We'd like you to stop at the proper roll angle, then do a Verb 49 to the roll and pitch. Over. Correction, roll and yaw. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 11. Over.
Go ahead, 11. Over. [Long pause.]
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. Do you read? Over. [Pause.]
Houston, Apollo 11. Over.
Roger, 11. Do you read me? Over. [Long pause.]
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. Over. [Pause.]
Stand by, Charlie. We're going to come out of PTC here at 263 roll and then do a Verb 49 to the recommended attitude.
That sounds fine to us. Over.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. Before you open the pressure equalization valve, we'd like a LM/CM Delta-P. Over.
Okay. Let me check it again. It was about 155.
Rog.
I read it 158 right now, Charlie.
Roger. Thank you much.
Houston, Apollo 11. We're stopping PTC at 263 [garble] 0.
11, Houston. You're about one-by on this transmission. Say again. Over.
Houston, Apollo 11. Do you read?
Houston, Apollo 11. How do you read on the High Gain?
11, how do you read me? Over.
Reading you loud and clear, Charlie. We just switched to High Gain, and we stopped PTC at roll 263, pitch 90, yaw 0. How do you read?
Roger, Mike. You're five-by now on the High Gain. We're right between the Omni antennas and pretty horrible Comm on the Omnis. We got you five-by on the High Gain, and we copy the PTC stoppage. Over.
Okay, fine. [Long pause.]
Houston, we're going to open the Direct O2 valve and start pumping up the cabin.
Roger. Copy. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, Houston. We're going to hand over to Goldstone for uplink in about 2 minutes. We might have a momentary drop-out of comm. Over.
Alrighty. Can you hear our Master Alarm in the background? That's O2 Flow High coming through this amplifier.
Roger. Copy. [Pause.]
That photoelectric cell is a good device. It's worked very well.
11, Houston. Say again. Over.
I say that photoelectric cell amplifier for the Master Alarm is a good device. It's working very well, and it's a nice pleasing tone.
Rog. Copy. Thank you. [Pause.]
Makes you almost glad to get master alarms! [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 11. As a matter of curiosity, our O2 flow meter is pegged full-scale High.
Roger, 11. We copy that here. Over.
Okay. [Long pause.]
Boy, that transducer's working somewhat.
Rog. [Long pause.]
11, Houston. We'd like to try to attempt to correlate your O2 flow in transducer with the flow valve that you've got open. How far - How far open would you say you have the Repress O2? Over. Correction, the Direct O2.
Stand by, Charlie. [Pause.]
Okay, Charlie. It's not open very far. It's hard to give you a good reading without shutting it again, but the arrow is about at the one o'clock position. Now I reduced the flow, and I'll let it stabilize here. Right now our onboard reading is about 0.4, and that's with the arrow on the O2 valve at the two o'clock position. Would you rather have comparisons of O2 flow readings or would you rather have valve position comparisons?
Roger. Stand by.
EECOMs say they'd like to look at the valve positions. Over.
Okay. Well, we're holding steady now at three-tenths of a pound per hour, and our cabin pressure is about 5.4; and I'll close the valve momentarily and then open it again to this position and tell you how much travel is required.
Roger. [Pause.]
It's about 30 degrees of travel, Charlie, from the closed position, which is with the arrow pointing at about three to three-thirty, four o'clock.
Roger. [Pause.]
Our flow is stabilized now at 0.6.
Roger. We copy. We're reading the same.
Okay. [Pause.]
Yeah, open it back to the one o'clock position.
Rog. [Long pause.]
Is that enough different positions, or you want more, Charlie?
Mike, that's a good - good enough. We're satisfied now. Over.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 11. We've terminated direct O2, our cabin pressure is 5.7, and, as a matter of curiosity, when we turn the Direct O2 valve off, we get a master alarm just like they did in the spacecraft testing.
Roger.
11, Houston, we have a little update for you. When you go into the LM, we'd like you to unstow and bring back to the Command Module the following items. Over.
Ready to copy.
Roger. We'd like you to pick up the - out of the flight data file, the surface checklist, the mission rules No-Go card, the DPS, APS, RCS limit cue card. Over.
Apollo 11, Houston. The reason we wanted you to bring those three items back, we'll have some updates for you, for those three. Over.
Roger. We figured you would.
