I rolled too slow.
Doubt that we'll make it.
Oh, look at that.
Golly damn! A geologist up here would just go crazy.
You want the Flight Plan?
Yeah, please.
Okay, we shouldn't take any more pictures on this roll until Earth comes, I don't think. This is...
About out?
just about out and it's on our last color roll, so we'll switch to black and white as soon as we get to Earth.
We might make it in time.
Yeah.
There it is, it's coming up!
What?
The Earth.
See it?
Yeah. Beautiful.
It's halfway up.
We ought to have AOS now. You got your...
Right over the LM.
Are you set up?
Just about to be cut off by the LM. Boy, does that ever look beautiful in the sextant.
Have you got...
Okay, how about MSFN...
You got them.
We're in Omni...
Down Voice Backup.
Bravo.
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston. Do you read? Over.
Yeah, we sure do, Houston. The LOI-1 burn just nominal as all getout, and everything's looking good.
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston. Do you read? Over.
Houston, Apollo 11. Over.
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston. We are reading you weakly. Go ahead. Over.
Roger. Burn status report follows. Delta-TIG zero, burn time 5:57, on the PAD. VGX minus 0.1, VGY minus 0.1, VGZ plus 0.1, Delta-VC minus point eight, fuel plus 390. Over.
11, this is Houston. These residuals, do you have minus 0.17, VGX minus 0.1, VGY minus 0.1, VGZ 1.1, and a burn time of 5 plus 57. Stand by, maybe the comm will improve a little bit. Over.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Are you in the process of acquiring with the High Gain Antenna? Over.
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston. How do you read?
Reading you loud and clear, Houston. How us?
Roger. Reading you the same, now. Could you repeat your burn status report? We copied the residuals and burn time, and that was about it. Send the whole thing again, please.
It was like - it was like perfect!
Delta-TIG zero, burn time 5:57, PAD values on the angles, VGX minus 0.1, VGY minus 0.1, VGZ plus 0.1, no trim, minus 6.8 on Delta-VC, fuel was 38.8, ox 39.0, plus 50 on balance. We ran an increase on the PUGS. Noun 44 showed us in a 60.9 by 169.9.
Roger. We copy your burn status report. And the spacecraft is looking good to us on telemetry.
Roger. Everything looks good up here.
Apollo 11 is getting its first view of the landing approach. This time we are going over the Taruntius crater, and the pictures and maps brought back by Apollos 8 and 10 have given us a very good preview of what to look at here. It looks very much like the pictures, but like the difference between watching a real football game and one on TV. There's no substitute for actually being here.
Roger. We concur, and we certainly wish we could see it first hand, also.
We're going over the Messier series of craters right at the time, looking vertically down on them, and Messier A, we can see good-sized blocks in the bottom of the crater. I don't know what our altitude is now, but in any case, those are pretty good-size blocks.
Okay. Just roughly, it looks like you're about 120 miles or 130 miles right now. Make that 127 miles.
We're approaching PDI point now, over...
There's Secchi in sight.
We're over Mount Marilyn at the present time, and it's ignition point.
Roger. Thank you. And our preliminary tracking data for the first few minutes shows you in a 61.6 by 169.5 orbit. Over.
Roger.
And Jim is smiling.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
11, Houston. During your SPS burn as played back on tape down here, we've observed the nitrogen tank Bravo pressure in the SPS system dropping a little bit more than we anticipated. It's holding steady right now. We'll continue to watch it and keep you posted if anything comes up. Over.
Roger. Thank you.
Right. And it has held steady...
Currently going over Maskelyne, Mas...
Okay.
And Boot Hill, Duke Island, Sidewinder, looking at Maskelyne W, that's the yaw round checkpoint, and just coming into the terminator. At the terminator it's ashen gray. As you get further away from the terminator, it gets to be a lighter gray, and as you get closer to the subsolar point, you can definitely see browns and tans on the ground, according to the last Apollo limb observation anyway.
Roger, 11. We're recording your comments for posterity.
Okay.
Did somebody in the background - do they accuse us of being compromisers?
Huh!
And the landing site is well into the dark here. I don't think we're going to be able to see anything of the landing site this early.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. When you have a free minute, could you give us your onboard readout of N2 tank Bravo, please. And we'd like to make sure you understand that ever since you stopped thrusting with the SPS, the temperature in this tank has remained steady. Over. Make that the pressure has remained steady.
Rog. We understand tank pressure has stayed steady. Thank you.
Roger. We're showing the N2 tank pressure in tank Bravo to be 1,960, something like that, and Alpha is, oh, about 22 - about 2,250. Over.
Roger. We show 2,249 in Alpha and 1,946 down here.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 11. How about coming up with some roll, pitch, and yaw angles in which to stop this so-called Orb-Rate that I'm doing.
Roger. Standby.
We'll have them for you in a minute, 11.
Okay. And time to stop also, please.
Yes, indeed.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We show you, in the Flight Plan, staying in orbital rate until about 79 hours, 10 minutes. Do you have some particular attitude or reason for wanting to go inertial? Over.
No, that's fine. I just wanted to confirm that. Until 79:10, then we'll breeze around here in orbit.
Roger. And we've got an observation you can make if you have some time up there. There's been some lunar transient events reported in the vicinity of Aristarchus. Over.
Roger. We just went into spacecraft darkness. Until then, why, we couldn't see a thing down below us. But now, with Earthshine, the visibility is, oh, pretty fair. Looking back behind me, now, I can see the corona from where the Sun has just set. And we'll get out the map and see what we can find around Aristarchus.
We're coming upon Aristarchus right now...
Okay. Aristarchus is at Tango Echo 9 on your ATO chart. It's about 394 miles north of track. However, at your present altitude, which is about 167 nautical miles, it ought to be over - that is within view of your horizon: 23 degrees north, 47 west. Take a look and see if you see anything worth noting up there. Over.
Both looking.
Roger. Out.
Houston, 11. It might help us a little bit if you could give us a time of crossing of 45 west.
Say again, please, 11.
You might give us a time of crossing of 45 west, and then we'll know when to start searching for Aristarchus.
Roger. You'll be crossing 45 west at 77:04:10 or about 40 seconds from now. Over. Thirty seconds from now.
Okay.
Apollo 11, when we lose the S-band, we'd like to get Omni Charlie from you. And update my last, that 77:04 was the time when Aristarchus should become visible over your horizon. 77:12 is point of closest approach south of it. Over.
Okay. That sounds better because we're just - just went by Copernicus a little bit ago.
Roger. We show you at about 27 degrees longitude right now.
Right-oh.
Houston, when a star sets up here, there's just no doubt about it. One instant it's there, and the next instant it's just completely gone.
Roger. We copy.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We request you use Omni Charlie at this time. Over.
Okay. Going to Omni Charlie.
Roger. Out.
Houston, Apollo 11.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. Seems to me since we know orbits so precisely, and know where the stars are so precisely, and can time the setting of a star or a planet to a very fine degree, that this might be a pretty good means of measuring the altitude of the horizon.
Roger.
Hey, Houston. I'm looking north up toward Aristarchus now, and I can't really tell at that distance whether I really am looking at Aristarchus, but there's an area there that is considerably more illuminated than the surrounding area. It just has - seems to have a slight amount of fluorescence to it as a crater can be seen, and the area around the crater is quite bright.
Roger, 11. We copy.
Houston, Apollo 11. Looking up at the same area now and it does seem to be reflecting some of the Earthshine. I'm not sure whether it was worked out to be about zero phase to - Well, at least there's one wall of the crater that seems to be more illuminated than the other, and that one - if I'm lining up with the Earth correctly, does seem to put it about at zero phase. That area is definitely lighter than anything else that I could see out this window. I am not sure that I am really identifying any phosphorescence, but that definitely is lighter than anything else in the neighborhood.
11, this is Houston. Can you discern any difference in color of the illumination, and is that an inner or an outer wall of the crater? Over.
Rog. That's an inner wall of the crater.
No, there doesn't appear to be any color involved in it, Bruce.
Roger. You said inner wall. Would that be the inner edge of the northern surface?
I guess it would be the inner part of the west-northwest part, the part that would be more nearly normal if you were looking at it from the Earth.
11, Houston. Have you used the monocular on this? Over.
Stand by one.
Like you to know this quest for science has caused me to lose my lunch. Floating around in here somewhere, but I can't find it.
11, this is Houston. We're - we're hearing only a partial comm. Say again please.
I think
Houston, we'll give it a try if we have the opportunity on next rev, when we're not in the middle of lunch, and trying to find the monocular.
Roger. Copied you that time. Expect in the next rev you'll probably be getting ready for LOI-2.
So, let's wind - wind this up, and we've got some other things to talk to you about in a few minutes.
Okay.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
11, this is Houston. We're targeting, or planning to make the LOI-2 burn now using bank A only. We'll have the PAD and everything for you next time around. Just trying to economize a little on bank B. Bank B is holding, though.
Roger. Understand.
CapCom.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
11, Houston. In order to improve the communications a little bit here, we'd like to try to get you on the High Gain Antenna. We're recommending a pitch angle of 0, yaw 355 - I say again 355, the Track switch to Manual, and Wide Beamwidth. Over.
Okay. You ready to switch to High Gain now?
That's affirmative.
11, Houston. Do you read?
Roger. We read you. It seems to be rather marginal on the High Gain.
Roger. We concur.
Houston, Apollo 11. Could you give us a time of crossing the prime meridian 150 west? Over.
Roger. Stand by about a half a second, here. Okay. Your time of crossing the 150 west meridian will be 77:50:05. Over.
Thank you.
11, this is Houston. We have about 6 minutes remaining until LOS, and in order that we may configure our ground lines, we'd like to know if you're still planning to have the TV up with the beginning of the next pass. Over.
Roger, Houston. We'll try to have it ready.
This is Houston. We are inquiring if it is your plan to. Over.
It never was our plan to. But it's in the Flight Plan, so I guess we'll do it.
Houston. Roger. Out.
11, Houston.
Roger. Go ahead.
For use in connection with that time on the prime meridian crossing, you have an orbital period now of 2 hours, 8 minutes and 37 seconds. Over.
Thank you.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. A little over 2 minutes to LOS. All your systems parameters and orbit are looking good from the ground. We have AOS on the other side at 78:23:31. Over.
Rog. 78:23:21.
Roger. That was 31 on the end.
Okay.
That's why I'm trying to get it out.
No alignment this rev, huh?
Mike, I guess the name of the game is to go back to - B Omni?
Huh?
Go back to B in Omni?
Well, let's see - when we come over the hill next time, we're supposed to have them on the High Gain, I think.
Not sure of that.
Did you use this thing?
No.
Well, let's get rid of it then. I can't see a crapping.
77:44 - okay - LOS is right on schedule.
77:50, we'll be at the prime meridian. Now, I can set that map up so it'll tell us where we are.
Okay.
We - we're ahead on this eat period - we're behind on the last eat period or something. We got a.
I think, Buzz, if you put - put the High Gain to Manual and go pitch 20 - yaw 360 - pitch minus 20, I guess...
Minus 20; yes, that would be better.
and yaw 360...
That's okay assuming I'm at the right attitude, but I ain't going to be at the right attitude - not without wasting a lot of gas. Put...
That's fine, but...
If you did, it would be very interesting that way.
Yep. Oh, crap.
We get High Gain and we get TV at the same time...
Well, I better start maneuvering then. Doggone it, I've been yawed out of plane somehow. Let's see, we're pitched down - we want to pitch back up - pitched down, doggone it. Accel Command, pitch down.
Okay, well - are we going to unlock the camera store and get all that claptrap put together?
Yep.
Okay.
Which window you want to operate out of, so I can figure out how to put the monitor on?
Well, I suppose the best one would be the center window, don't you think?
Probably, I don't know; wait until we get into attitude.
Get into attitude - see what we think.
Oh, shit! This pitch here is no good. 32, huh? Pitch 315 I want to be at, huh? Alright. They keep - all they do is they say Orb-rate and that little attitude right there and right there applies to the rest of this page, all of that page, and over to this page.
Okay, so that's the one we'll do.
Okay, that's the way I'm rolling.
And we'll take the - we'll have High Gain...
Yep.
and we'll get the camera out of the center window, if that looks reasonable.
Okay.
We'll have to give them pictures of the Moon.
I've been plotting on them. 50:05.
We'll have a gauge as to where we are.
55...
Outside, huh? Alright, the switch is set for outside.
Could I have that map that y'all were looking at before, that lunar map? Thank you.
Hmmm - here comes the Moon.
Really beautiful.
Hey, you...
I wonder where we are.
we're going to stop here pretty soon, right?
Yes, at 315.
Man, that's really...
It really looks gray to me now.
right down toward the ground here.
and you could be busy getting up supplies if you...
About a minute from AOS.
Okay, let's get out of this. Let me get Verb 62. Okay, Mike?
Oh, I really need these, Buzz. I really need these goddam.
Well, we're not going to have much of a TV unless we get High Gain.
Alright.
I'll give it back to you -.
You got yourself some rates going about, like, what you want?
You got - you got High Gain right now, I mean the angles, right now.
And we're 23 - we're 30 seconds from AOS, so those angles should be okay. You reading them?
Minus 30 pitch...
Yes.
150 yaw, okay.
No, that's not 150 - that's 15. Isn't it?
Just a second. Yes, minus - I'm sorry, minus 31 and plus 15. Right. You got it?
Yes.
I don't know what f-stop I ought to be at. Well - see what it's doing, Mike?
The flicker I don't know about, the white dot is...
Yes, the flicker...
the flicker is what I'm - Nothing I can...
Okay, we got it solid.
nothing you can do about the flicker?
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Got it solid on Auto.
Houston, Apollo 11. Are you picking up our signals okay?
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Affirmative. We're reading you loud and clear on voice and we have a good clear TV picture, a little bright crater in the...
No, no, no. That's...
the bottom of the picture. I guess that's the spot on the tube.
I'm sorry about that one.
And if you could give us P00 and Accept, we'll uplink a new state vector and target load to you.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 11. One of the larger craters on the back side - I noticed a small, dark speck on the outer wall, and putting the monocular on it, I was able to see - oh, an area maybe a quarter of a mile in diameter. It was really a fresh looking dark-colored pit, and that seems to be in contrast with all the other fresh little craters or holes that you can perceive on the walls of any of these craters. Around this particular one there seems to be two or three of these - especially the one that caught my attention. Quite remarkable. Over.
Roger. Do you have a location on that one?
No, not a precise one. I've got several pictures of it, though.
Roger. We copy.
We're getting a beautiful picture in down there now, 11. The color's coming in quite clearly, and we can see the horizon and the relative blackness of space, and without getting into the question of grays and browns, it looks, at least on our monitor, sort of a brownish-gray.
That's a good, reasonable way of describing it. It appears to me as though it made a difference just sitting back in the tunnel and gazing at all windows; it makes a difference which one you're looking out of. For example, the camera right now is looking out the number 5 window, and it definitely gives a rosier or tanner tinge, especially when you look straight through it and not at an angle. Over.
Roger.
GNC, Flight. Okay, your tank - nitrogen tank is okay? Still holding?
Oh, we're about 95 or 100 degrees east. Coming up on Smyth's Sea.
Okay.
Say again, 11?
I'd say again we're about 95 degrees east, coming up on Smyth's Sea.
Roger. And for your information, we show you at an altitude of about...
Houston...
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 11. Did you observe a difference in the N2 pressures before LOI? It seems to me as though the two were not equal on the...
Standby.
Yeah, I think that's right. Ah...
I'm flying it in SCS minimum impulse, Houston, and it's rather difficult to keep it on a constant theta. The LM wants to wander up and down. I'm not sure if it's in response to mascons or what, but I can get it completely stabilized in theta and let it alone, and in another couple of minutes it will have developed its own rate.
This is Houston. Roger.
Houston, we'll be moving shortly from the side window to the hatch window, and we'll try and pick up some of the landmarks that we'll be looking at as we approach powered descent. Over.
11, this is Houston. Roger. And we're through with the uplink; the computer is yours. You can go to Block and we'll have the information on nitrogen for you shortly. Over.
Roger. Copy.
Okay, Houston. Several minutes ago I was exactly steady on theta, and since then I have been moving toward the LM, pointed straight down toward the radius vector, and that's been despite a number of down minimum-pitch impulses.
Roger.
We're over Smyth's Sea right now.
Roger.
We're about 88 degrees east, I would estimate.
We show you about south of the - southwest of the crater Jansky right now.
Smyth Sea doesn't look very much like a sea. It - The area which is devoid of craters, of which there's not very much, is sort of a hilly looking area. It's not like the maria at all.
Roger. We copy that about the sea, and it looks like you were just giving us a view of the crater Neper, the large crater on the left, and Jansky on the right.
We think you're close, but no cigar.
11, this is Houston. Would you care to comment on some of these craters as we go by?
Roger. We're approaching the approach path to ignition. This is equivalent to 13 minutes before ignition, and we're at about 80 degrees east, I guess - 83 degrees east. That correspond to the location you're holding there presently?
Roger. We're showing your present position as about 77 - 76 degrees east looking back towards the east.
Hey, you should be looking back at Smyth Sea now.
Roger.
Okay.
Houston, what you're seeing in the middle of the screen now is the crater Schubert and Gilbert U is in the center right now; and this comes up at about - a little over 12 minutes before powered descent. Instead of me looking - Instead of looking back at it, we'd be looking straight down at that time.
Roger.
And we show you at an altitude now of about 110 miles. And, of course, you'll be considerably lower at the initiation of powered descent.
Okay, Houston. Look at register 3 on the DSKY data. This data is increasing toward my desired of 315; and I'll let the hand controller alone here, and I'll bet you it reverses itself.
Roger, 11. We're watching the DSKY now, and it's still coming in beautifully on the TV.
Okay. There's - on the right side of the screen at the present time, there's a triple crater with - with a small crater between the first and second; and the one at the bottom of the screen is Schubert Y. Zoom in - it does have a central peak in Schubert Y. Actually, several of them, and you can observe those, plus the rim craters at the bottom of your screen.
Roger. We're seeing the central peak quite clearly now.
Okay. We're zooming in now on a crater called Schubert N. Schubert N, very conical inside walls and the bottom appears to be nearly flat.
Look at data on the DSKY. It's stabilized and is holding steady now.
Roger.
Looking out the window I can see a number of small craters on the bottom of Schubert N.
We're coming up on the Foaming Sea where I'll be doing some P22 marking on a crater of my choice; name of crater, KAMP.
Okay. We'll be watching for KAMP.
And notice register 3 has reversed itself, and it's heading back the other way now without any pitch thruster firing.
Roger, Mike. We confirm that you've changed the direction of your pitch rate.
Generally speaking the...
The crater...
The tendency seems to be to pull the LM down toward the center of the Moon as in a gravity gradient experiment.
Roger, 11. We copy...
It may have something to do with mascons or it may...
Roger. We copy...
It may have something to do with Mascons or it may just be the peculiarity of the DSKY display.
Okay. We've observed the behavior of your DSKY, and I think we've got the data here to work on it. Let us grind around a little while on it, and we'll report back to you, probably in a rev or two.
Okay. Well, in the meantime, I'm going to pitch down toward 315.
Roger.
Three craters - three horizontal craters that you now have in the field of view are immediately underneath the ground track. The right-hand, and the largest crater that you see, is Dubiago P.
Roger. We concur on the identification of that crater.
And we show you coming up on landmark Alpha 1 here shortly.
Roger. Mike's having his first look at Alpha 1 at the present time.
Yeah. It's a great bright crater. It's not a large one but an extremely bright one. It looks like a very recent and, I would guess, impact crater with rays streaming out in all directions which should make my... Correction - the Foaming Sea easy to see coming up on it now. Crater KAMP is one of the smaller ones out on the - on the floor of the Foaming Sea.
Here we show you over the Sea of Fertility now, and we ought to have Langrenus down south of track a few degrees, about 9 degrees south of track.
Now the crater that's in the center of the screen now is Webb. We'd be looking straight down on it at about 6 minutes before powered descent. It has a relatively flat bottom to the crater, and you can see maybe two or three craters that are in the bottom of it. On the western wall, the wall that's now nearest to the - the camera, near the bottom of the screen, we can see a dimple crater, just on the outside. And then coming back toward the bottom of the screen and to the left, you can see a series of depressions. It's this type of connected craters that give us most interest to discover why they're in the particular pattern that they're in. I'll zoom the camera in and try and give you a closer look at this.
Roger. We're observing the dimple crater now. The central peak we can see on the Orbiter photos doesn't seem to stand out very well here.
Well, they're not central peaks. They're depressions in the center.
Roger.
And you'll notice on the pitch thruster activity, I've still - I've put in, oh, a dozen minimum impulses in pitch down, and I'm still far from correcting back to 315.
We're moving the camera over to the right window now to give you Langrenus, its - its several central peaks and...
Roger. We got Langrenus in our screen now.
Okay, 11. This is Houston. We're getting a beautiful picture of Langrenus now with its rather conspicuous central peak.
The Sea of Fertility doesn't look very fertile to me. I don't know who named it.
Well, it may have been named by a gentleman whom this crater was named after, Langrenus. Langrenus was a cartographer to the King of Spain and made one of the - one of the early reasonably accurate maps of the Moon.
Roger. That's very interesting...
I'll have to admit it sounds better for our purposes than the Sea of Crises.
Amen to that.
Okay. It looks like you're coming inside now on the camera.
Well, I can't get behind to see the monitor. I'll bring the focus in, but we're going to be looking down past one of the LM quads and one of the antennas, almost straight down at the ground track that we'll be seeing coming in now. I guess this is maybe 2 or 3 minutes before powered descent.
Alright, that should put the LM structure about in focus, and I'm going to move it out to infinity and then expand the field of view.
Crater Secchi is out my window now, window number 2.
Apollo 11. This is Houston. We show you coming up on the terminator at 78:53, about 7 minutes from now, and we've also got the LOI-2 and TEI-5 PADs ready for you after the TV, whenever you want to terminate. Over.
Roger.
And we're getting a good view of the track leading into the landing site now.
Okay. And it looks like we got Secchi K, went by about 10 seconds ago. Coming up on Apollo Ridge.
And in the right-hand portion of our screen right now, we can see Messier Alpha and Bravo with the light-colored rays streaming off in one direction.
I don't know if you can make out, but in the Sea of Fertility there are a number of craters that are just barely discernible. Old, old craters whose outlines are just barely able to be seen.
Roger. I think we can make them out. The color really enhances our ability to discern features and craters over what we see in real time on our black and white monitor.
Right. The - At these low Sun angles, there's no trace of brown, it's now returned to a very gray appearance and, like the 8 crew said, it has a look of plaster of Paris to it at this Sun angle, which is completely lacking at higher Sun angles.
Roger.
Okay. This is very close to ignition point for powered descent. Just passing Mount Marilyn that - that triangular-shaped mountain that you see in the center of the screen at the present time with crater Secchi Theta on top of the far northern edge of the mountain.
Roger. We're getting a good view of Mount Marilyn and of Secchi Theta.
And now we're looking at what we call Boot Hill; occurs 20 seconds into the descent.
The bright, sharp-rimmed crater at the very right edge of the screen, Censorinus T. Now passing the - the 1-minute point in powered descent.
Roger. And for your information, your current altitude is 148 nautical miles above the surface.
I'm unable to determine altitude at all looking out the window. I couldn't tell whether we were down at 60 or up at 170.
I bet you could tell if you were down at 50,000 feet.
I wouldn't be surprised.
We're passing some steep ridges here, the edges of old craters that were photographed by Apollo 10. And those - the crew of Apollo 10 was very impressed with the steepness of these ridges when they came over them at about 50,000 feet.
Roger. We can observe they're also steep even from this altitude. You got quite a shadow being cast by the Sun at these low angles.
The entire surface is getting considerably darker than the surface that we looked at previously when the Sun was quite high above us. The crater in the - bright crater in the center of the screen, - well, the smaller one is Censorinus.
Roger. And we show you a little over 1 minute from the terminator at the present time.
How's the brightness of the picture you're receiving? You think we ought to open up the f-stop some as we approach the terminator?
Yeah. The brightness is still doing quite well. You can go ahead and open it up a stop or two. The automatic light level compensation seems to be working beautifully.
There's a good picture of Boot Hill.
Roger. We're...
Three minutes and 15 seconds into the descent.
Roger. We're seeing Boot Hill now.
And the next crater coming into the bottom, that's Duke Island right there, and to the left, the crater - the largest of the craters near the center of the picture right now is Maskelyne W. This is a position check during descent at about 3 minutes and 39 seconds, and it's our downrange position check and cross-range position check prior to yawing over face-up to acquire the landing radar. Past this point, we would be unable to see the surface below us until getting very near the landing area.
Roger. I imagine you get a - you'll get a real good look at that tomorrow afternoon.
Sinuous Rille is the one that was referred to in Apollo 10 as Sidewinder.
That's a good name, too: Sidewinder and Diamondback. It looks like a couple of snakes down there in a lake bed.
And we're approaching the terminator now. See the...
Roger.
contrast has increased and only the sunlit side of these ridges remain illuminated, while the dark sides and the shadow will become completely black.
11, this is Houston. The picture's getting a little grainy now. You might go ahead and open up the f-stop.
Landing point is just barely in the darkness. That one crater, the upper part of which you see, lower part completely in darkness - the small, well-defined crater is Moltke, which is about abeam of the landing site.
Roger. We can just see - it looks like a little less than half of its rim right now.
And we can make out, just barely, some features on the surface, maybe from Earthshine.
Are you wide open on the f-stop at this time?
Affirmative, we are.
Yeah. And it looks like we're just about to get the Sun coming into the lens, so we'll have to move the camera away.
Roger.
We can't see any Earthshine or any surface features at all in Earthshine now, due to the fact that the LM is very bright and is causing our pupils to contract.
It's a very fantastic view to see the terminator as you look along the edge of it. I think you'll agree that some of these craters that you're seeing in the picture now are really accentuated by the lengthening of the shadows as they approach the terminator.
Yes. It's a very beautiful and a rugged sight that we've got on the screen now.
And I think you've got some interesting data on thruster firings versus pitch angle. It looks like that LM just wants to head down towards the surface, is all.
Roger. I have a comment here that says that's what the LM was built for.
I believe!
And as the Moon sinks slowly in the west, Apollo 11 bids good day to you.
Roger. We sort of thought it was the Sun setting in the east.
Well, it depends on your point of view.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 11, Houston. When you're ready to copy, I have an LOI-2 PAD and a TEI-5 PAD. Over.
Okay. Stand by.
I'm passing 182 inertial. I'm going inertial now.
Ready to copy LOI-2 PAD.
Roger on the inertial. And here we go on the LOI-2 PAD. LOI-2, SPS/G&N: 38320, plus 1.66, minus 0.81; TIG 080:11:36.03. Noun 81; minus 0140.8, minus all balls, minus 0074.3. Roll, all balls, 196, 359; 0065.7, plus 0053.7. Delta-VT; 0159.2, 0:17, 0153.1. Sextant star; 23, 116.0, 13.8. The rest of the PAD is NA. GDC align; Vega and Deneb, 243, 183, 012. Ullage; two jets, 19 seconds. Remarks: On your DAP load, we would like in R1, 20101 vice the value which appears in the Flight Plan. In making the sextant star check, this must be done between GET of 79:30:10, at which time the star comes above the horizon, and 79:52:10, which is your local sunrise due to the fact that this star is relatively close to the Sun. Your burn orientation is heads down, retrograde, pitched up 28 degrees with respect to local horizontal. The calculated values for Noun 42 are HA 65.6 and HP 54.6, both of those being plus. Read back. Over.
Roger, LOI-2: SPS/G&N: 38320, plus 1.66, minus 0.81; 080:11:36.03; minus 0140.8, minus all balls, minus 0074.3. All zeros, 196, 359; 0065.7, plus 0053.7; 0159.2, 0:17, 0153.1; 23, 116.0, 13.8. Vega, Deneb, 243, 183, 012; two jet, 19 seconds. DAP; R1, 20101. Sextant star between 79:30:10 and 79:52:10. Attitude is heads down, retrograde pitched up 28 degrees. HA after the burn - Was that Noun 42 for HA and 64.6 and HP 54.6? Over.
Roger. On the Noun 42 value, the last stuff you gave, HA is 65.6, HP is 54.6. Otherwise, I readback correct. I'm standing by with your TEI-5 PAD. Over.
Roger. HA 65.6 for Noun 42. And ready to copy.
11, this is Houston. TEI-5 SPS/G&N: 37201, minus 0.60, plus 0.47; TIG 086:09:36.66. Noun 81; plus 3352.1, plus 0344.1, minus 0145.8; roll NA; pitch, 032. The rest of the PAD is NA. Ullage; two jets, 16 seconds, undocked. Over.
Roger. TEI-5 SPS/G&N: 37201, minus 0.60, plus 0.47; 086:09:36.66; plus 3352.1, plus 0344.1, minus 0145 - 458, NA, 032. The rest is NA. Two jets, 16 seconds, undocked. Over.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Readback is correct. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. That's affirmative on the downvoice backup. We'd like you to confirm your Uptelemtry switch in the Normal position. Over.
Roger. It's in Block. Did you get us the - You got us a new CSM state vector and an LOI-2 target load in between all that television, didn't you?
That's affirmative.
And what I'm asking for is the switchover to...
Thank you.
The Up-telemetry switch is in Normal. Over.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. During the LOI-1 burn, your engine burned a little bit more propellant than we predicted, and consequently, we'd like to update - or send you a new TEI-4 PAD. Over.
Okay.
Our chamber pressure onboard was higher that time, too. It's all on the onboard tape, the time entry, and the chamber pressure. But to make a long story short, it worked its way up to 100.
Roger.
And down here, we showed a chamber pressure of, on the order of, 103 to 104 psi during your burn on playback.
Okay.
Go ahead with the TEI-4.
Roger. TEI-4 revised: SPS/G&N: 38320, minus 0.55, plus 0.60; 084:30:27.49; plus 3138.0, plus 0347.5, minus 0103.2; roll NA: pitch, 034. Rest of the PAD is NA. Ullage, two jets, 16 seconds, undocked. No LOI-2. Over.
Understand; TEI-4 SPS/G&N: 38320, minus 0.55, plus 0.60; 084:30:27.49; plus 3138.0, plus 0347.5, minus 0103.2; NA, 034. All the rest of the PAD's NA. Two jets, 16 seconds, undocked. No LOI-2.
11, this is Houston. Readback correct. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston.
Roger. Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We've been looking at your systems data on playback, and everything is looking good. In particular, the SPS looks good. We'd like to remind you, though, of a request to perform this burn on the Bank A ball valves only, and you are Go for LOI-2. Also, we have currently in the Flight Plan, you scheduled tomorrow to start entering the LM at about 96 hours GET, and we'd like to know if you have any plans to initiate this ingress into the LM earlier. If so, we can call the people in ahead of time. Over.
Well, we didn't have any plans to, no. We just wanted to be ready at that time.
Roger. We just wanted to make sure that we were ready when you were ready. Over.
Okay. And to get the sextant star in LOI-2, that's roll zero. Is that affirm?
That's affirmative. Roll zero.
Okay.
Apollo 11, Houston. Five minutes 'til LOS. And with respect to your request for the nitrogen bottle pressures pre-burn. Just before the burn, we were showing 2,270 pounds per square inch on bottle Alpha and 2,350 on bottle Bravo. Over.
Apollo 11. Roger. Thank you.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Two minutes to LOS. Your AOS on the other side is 80:33:21, and the friendly White Team will see you when you come out from behind the Moon.
Apollo 11. Roger.
Make that your friendly...
Thank you, Bruce. green.
Okay. I don't blame you, Hank.
I'd rather be up there.
Another 5 minutes, Neil babe.
Okay.
This pitch angle is quite a bit off nominal; 196 instead of 212.
Umm.
16 degrees.
Yes, Shaffer screwed up - got to get his eccentric orbit.
