Houston, Apollo 11. Over.
Apollo 11, Houston. Go.
Roger. I'm supposed to adjust the oxygen flow in this thing to six-tenths of a pound per hour, but being as how this transducer is not working right, could you give me an updated number?
Affirmative. You want to go ahead and adjust your O2 flow until it just goes off the peg, and then crank the direct O2 valve back down about 5 degrees. Over.
Boy, you're really waiting for that one, aren't you? Okay, Ron. Thank you.
Houston, I did that, and I believe we are flowing oxygen, but the gauge is just pegged Full Scale Low.
Roger. That's fine. That's what we expect.
Okay.
Okay. I'm going to go ahead with the tunnel leak check.
Columbia, Houston. I have a new LM weight for you whenever you're ready to copy.
No, not right now, Ron. Remind me of it later, would you please?
Roger. We'll stand by.
Houston, Apollo 11. I let P47 run longer than I should. I may have deteriorated our state vector slightly.
Roger, Apollo 11. That's okay. We'll get it later.
Houston, Apollo 11. Go ahead with your DAP up, please.
Roger. Your LM weight, 5785. For an R1 we'd like to have 61102; R2, 01111. Use B/D roll. Over.
Roger. I'm configured now at panel 8 for B/D roll, and I have thrusters C4 and B3 turned off, and I copy Register 1 61102, 01111 and LM weight 5785. Thank you.
Roger, Columbia.
Houston, Columbia has completed the leak check, and proceeding with opening the hatch dump valve.
Roger, Columbia. Understand you're doing the leak check. I missed anything after that.
I say the leak check is complete, and I'm proceeding with opening the hatch dump valve.
Eagle - Columbia, Roger.
Eagle, Columbia.
Go ahead.
My hatch is removed. You can open yours, and I'll start passing stuff up to you.
Okay.
Well; stand by one, first.
Okay.
Mike, you still there?
Yeah, everything is going fine. Be with you in just a sec.
Eagle, Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston, Eagle here.
Roger. Any time prior to jettison there, we'd like an AGS to PGNS align: 400 plus 30 000. Over.
Okay. Any particular attitude you'd like the PGNS in when we do that?
No. We're not getting any. Could you give us some course align gimbal angles to move the PGNS to, and then we'll align the AGS to the PGNS. Over.
Roger. Eagle. We concur. Stand by on the gimbal angles. And also, Eagle, while we've got the Command Module direct O2 on there, there's a possibility that your cabin relief might relieve if we get on up around cabin pressure of about 5.4 or 5.5.
Roger.
Eagle, Houston.
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. All we're trying to do is get PGNS and AGS aligned together. Doesn't make any difference on the gimbal angles.
Hopin'?
Okay. We're pretty close to 000. Is that all right?
Eagle, that's beautiful.
Now, you might want to take into account what'll happen when the CSM maneuvers to jettison attitude.
Eagle, Houston. We don't care what the - All we are trying to do is get a drift rate and see how long it takes them to drift apart on the thing after you jettison.
Okay. Will we be jettisoning at about this attitude? That's okay. I'll align the AGS to the PGNS. You can tell me a little later if you need some help.
Eagle, Houston. That's fine.
Houston, Columbia. You want me to roll over and get High Gain or anything like that?
Columbia, Houston. I can give you some Reacq angles for the High Gain on the LM jettison attitude. Then you can go there whenever you want to. The angles are pitch minus 50, and yaw zero.
Okay.
Houston, Columbia. Say the jettison roll, pitch, and yaw, please.
Columbia, Houston. Roll zero, pitch 025, and yaw zero. Over.
Roger. Understand roll zero, pitch 025, yaw zero.
Affirmative.
Maneuver in progress. We've moving. Houston.
Houston, Eagle. Over.
Eagle, Houston. Go.
Roger. It doesn't appear as though the red hose is going to be much of a competitor to the leading vacuum cleaner brands. Over.
There's a little noise there, Buzz. Say again.
Eagle, Houston.
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. Just a reminder to be sure and zero the AGS errors before you enable AGS attitude hold there after you get in burn attitude.
Roger. You mean Sep attitude?
Houston, how do you read Columbia on the High Gain now?
Hey, Columbia, Houston. Mighty fine, loud and clear.
Same here, Ron. Thanks.
And Eagle, Houston. Your steerable antenna angles for jettison attitude are - Over.
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. Pitch 165, yaw 68. Over.
Roger. Pitch 165, yaw 68.
Eagle, Houston. Correct.
Columbia, Houston.
Columbia. Go ahead.
Roger, Mike. You want to tweak the O2 flow up just a bit there?
Okay. Coming up. Houston, do you have any preferences as to what you want us to do with the probe? Over.
Columbia, Houston. Stand by one.
Okay. Eagle says they've got a place for it inside there, so no - no problem.
Roger. That's what we were assuming.
Eagle, Houston.
Eagle. Go ahead.
Roger. Neil, it looks like your steerable's good. You can put your Track mode to Slew and high bit rate, please. Over.
Okay. Track mode to Slew and high bit rate.
Okay. Stand by just one, please.
Okay. Shoot them on down.
Eagle, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. Neil, just a reminder again, ACA out of detent, to zero the AGS error there just in case you go to Attitude Hold shortly.
Okay.
You say you wanted the probe now?
Okay.
Eagle, Houston.
Houston, Eagle. Go ahead.
Roger. That ACA out of detent didn't quite do it because the mode control switches were off. Request Guidance Control to PGNS and then back to AGS, and that will zero the AGS, there. Over.
Say again, please.
Roger. Request Guidance Control switch to PGNS and then back to AGS. Over.
Okay. We still have both mode control switches off. Over.
That's okay. That's good.
And I thought I'd just take about 5 seconds here and see if I could get 000 gone, since we're fairly close to gimbal lock right now.
Eagle, Houston. That's fine.
Columbia and Eagle, Houston. About 5 minutes to LOS. Your LM jett time will be 131 plus 52, and I have the rest of the maneuver PAD if you want it now, or I can give it to you on the next time around.
Stand by one.
Could you read it around the next time around, please?
Sure, Mike. That's fine. We'll get it to you then.
Apollo 11, Houston. About a minute and a half to LOS. You're looking great. It's been a mighty fine day.
Boy, you're not kidding.
Now, here are a couple of bags - and I think it's self-explanatory what goes in them.
Yes.
water.
Now, where are those things?
They're at the overshoot Buzz.
Maybe I could slide out of here.
Hey, Michael, you all tied up there?
Get ready for those million-dollar boxes. Got a lot of weight; now, watch it.
You intend to keep?
Yes.
That's all your input, are you sure?
Yes.
Okay.
Use what?
Use lithium hydroxide.
That thing still doesn't fit.
No, they didn't fix it.
Huh?
They didn't fix it. I had thought somebody had mentioned it, at least.
What?
Get some tape.
Yes.
Still got some here?
Yes.
Okay.
Do you want to vacuum off any of those - those spills or anything?
Well, that's.
Oh, the tape, I guess.
Want tape?
Yes, please.
Here you are.
About how many pictures did you take with - the close-up camera?
I don't know; 30 maybe, 40?
I hope I took the thing apart correctly.
Push the cutter bar down first?
Yes.
It's all right, then.
How are you doing?
Can't hear you.
(Laughter) Well, that stuff can't not smell. Think of Bobby Goldstills?
Say, you did get a couple of hard ones in there, didn't you?
Yes.
I guess we leave this here or do you want to take it up?
I'd leave that here.
That might be a little hard to explain.
Yes.
Hey, Neil?
Yes?
Okay.
get rid of this.
Okay. If you want to have a look at what the Moon looks like, you can open that up and look. Don't open the bag, though.
You'd never have guessed, huh?
What did you do with that checklist?
It's back yonder.
What?
It's behind the hatch.
What was that bag?
Contingency sample.
Rock?
Yes, there's some rocks in it, too. You can feel them, but you can't see them; they're covered with that - graphite.
compared to...
Looks like powdered graphite to me.
Say, you got a screwdriver, Mike?
Yes.
Yes?
Yes, I guess I have. Just a second.
You know, that - that one's just a bunch of trash that we want to take back - LM parts, odds and ends, and it won't stay closed by itself. We'll have to figure something out for it.
Ouch! Alright, here's your checklist.
You vacuum all this stuff?
Which?
Gloves, lunar stuff?
Okay. It looks to me like - what we're going to do is vacuum you out and get you out of here. I'll - throw the switches down there.
How about the data bag?
No, I need this bag.
Well, I've got one here. I'll go try to get some more - when I go over. Okay?
Okay. Give me the vacuum tube.
Let me get my back to you first.
Need a PPK.
Huh? I guess they're in here. PPKs?
I guess they're over here.
you know?
Get your circuit breakers pushed? Audio control circuit breakers?
How are you doing?
It's filthy.
Does all this stuff come in here?
Well, I guess that ought to do it.
Okay.
Yes.
Just a minute.
Say, I need some of those data books.
Where did you put the book? Where did you put the first one? In here? Okay.
No, we can leave those two here. No, I don't want either of those two. No, I think the others might be...
we leave these bags here.
Okay.
Hey, have you been over it, Mike?
really.
How about calling them and asking them for - if those angles are still good? Right at lock-lock with them?
last time.
Oh, okay. I'm sorry.
Hello, Eagle. Houston. Do you read? Over.
Houston, this is Columbia. Reading you loud and clear. We're all three back inside. The hatch is installed. We're running a pressure check - leak check. Everything's going well.
Roger, Eagle. Correction - Roger, Columbia. We copy. You guys are speedy; you beat us to the punch here. We had a couple of things for you.
What are they?
Oh, it was just - We wanted you to close the CO2 sensor breaker and give us an RCS onboard read-out out of Eagle, but that's all. Columbia, Houston. We've got a state vector for you if you'll give us P00 and Accept. Over.
Buzz says the CO2 sensor circuit breaker is in.
Rog. Thank you very much.
The RCS quantity was approximately 60 at A and 45 percent at B.
Roger.
And we're going P00 and Accept.
Roger. Thank you.
Columbia, Houston. Your friendly White Team's going to be on till we get you on the way home, and we'd like to congratulate everybody on a successful rendezvous and a beautiful EVA. It was a great show for everybody. Over.
Thank you, sir. I'll tell Neil and Buzz.
Houston, the hatch passes its integrity check. I'm going to go to LM tunnel Vent now, and leave it there.
Roger, Columbia. We copy. That's good, and we'd like a readout on the GET of about the time you - that Eagle selected the secondary loop. Over.
Stand by.
Hello, Columbia. Houston. We got the load in. You can do the Verb 66 and the computer's yours. Over.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 11. I'd say that the secondary loop was actuated about 15 to 20 minutes ago. Over.
Roger. Copy, Columbia. Thank you very much.
Columbia, Houston. It looks like you guys are so speedy on us that we're thinking about moving up jettison time to about a GET of 130 plus 30, if that's okay with y'all. Over.
That's fine. I've still got to get a P30 PAD from you.
Rog. We want to talk to you about that, Mike. We can - for your druthers, we can do it either way. We can either let you do it in, the jettison in P30 - correction P47, or we can send you a P30 target load up and then you - let you call P41, whichever you want to do. Over.
Yeah, I see. Ron was going to give me a P30 PAD and the Flight Plan says P47. Of the two, I prefer to go the P30, P41 route.
Rog. Beautiful. we've got the load, If you'll give us P00 and Accept, we'll send you a load up. Stand - stand by.
Columbia, Houston. We'd like you to terminate direct O2 flow, and stand by on your P00 and Accept. We'll have to generate a new load due to the move-up on time. Over.
Roger.
Columbia, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Rog, Mike. It looks like if we move up this jettison time and give you a new load, it would require a new attitude, and we can't do that due to the LM already closed out. It would fight us all the way around and we'd lose comm with it. We're thinking about separating in P47 in about 10 minutes. We're looking at trajectories and we'll be right with you momentarily. Over.
Okay. It's no big thing with me either way.
Rog.
Hello, Columbia. Houston. We'd like you to start down your jettison checklist. We recommend picking up page F11-12 and we'd like to jettison at ten minutes, that'll be 130:14:45. Over.
Right.
Columbia, Houston. If you can't - If that doesn't - not satisfactory, let us know. Over.
Right.
Houston, Columbia. How about a Go for Logic Bus Arm.
Stand by.
Columbia, Houston. You've got a Go.
Thank you.
Columbia, Houston. You can undock at your convenience, correction, jettison at your convenience. We would like you to jettison Eagle and station-keep - in P47 and station-keep, and we'll have another attitude and a maneuver for you such that we'll be okay for TEI. Over.
Roger that.
And I'm standing by to go to P47 just as soon as you give me a go for Pyro Arm.
Rog. I thought we gave you that, Mike. You're Go for Pyro Arm and you're Go for jettison.
Okay.
Okay. Letting her go in 10 seconds.
Copy. Out.
Noun 83 reading minus four balls 3, minus three balls, 3 and - or correction - minus - both Register 1 and Register 2 are reading minus four balls 3. Register 3, is zeros. The EMS remained on 100.0. A fairly loud noise, and it appears to be departing - Oh, I would guess several feet per second.
Roger, can you kind of station-keep with it, Mike? Just stand by now.
Will do.
Columbia, Houston. Don't try to chase it, just hold what you've got.
Charlie, did it hold cabin pressure this time?
Say again, Buzz. Over.
Okay. I thrusted back - I thrusted back toward it a little bit, Charlie, and I'm now reading Noun 83, plus four balls 4, minus four balls 8, and you want me to kill average G. Right?
Stand by. That's affirmative. You can exit P47.
There she goes. It was a good one.
Roger dodger. We got Eagle looking good. It's holding cabin pressure and it picked up about 2 feet per second from that jettison.
I believe that. I can see some cracks on the outer coating around the tunnel, in the thermal protective covering. I don't think it has anything to do with the structure.
Roger.
Hello, Columbia, Houston. We'll have an attitude and a little blip burn for you in about 130:30, so we can separate from Eagle. Over.
That's fine.
Columbia, Houston. Would you start a maneuver to about a pitch of 230 for this little tweak burn? Over.
Roger. Pitch 230.
Rog, Mike. And verify track mode in Auto for the High Gain.
We're in Reacq. Is that alright?
Say again. We need Auto.
Say again. We're in Reacq - Auto Reacq.
Roger. We need Auto, please, sir.
Okay. You got it.
Roll zero, pitch 320, yaw zero?
Right now, that's what we're looking at. Stand by. We might have you roll so we can keep the High Gain. Stand by.
Roger.
Columbia, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Rog, Mike...
Apollo 11, these days.
Oh! Rog, Apollo 11! We got you going to a posigrade attitude and we want you - this burn will be using the minus-X thrusters at about 2 or 3 feet per second, and we got a load for you. We'll send it up momentarily. Over.
Okay.
Apollo 11, Houston. Would you give us P00 and Accept? We have a load for you. Over.
You got it.
Roger, Mike. And our pitch attitude's a little wrong here. If you're ready to copy, I'll give you the Sep PAD. Over.
Go ahead. Ready to copy.
Roger. Starting with Noun 33: 130:30:00.00, plus 00020, plus all zeros, plus all zeros. Roll, all zeros; pitch, 230; yaw, zero. Noun 44 is NA. Delta-VT 00020, burn time 0:07, Delta-VC 00020. We have - the rest of the PAD is NA.
Roger. GET 130 hours, 30 minutes; Delta-VX 2.0, roll zero, pitch 230, yaw zero, Delta-VT 2.0.
That's affirmative, Apollo 11. And, Mike, it's similar to the Sep burn prior to the - right after undocking here. And the P41 you should see on Register 1 - 2, and then you can burn minus-X until you read 4. Over.
Apollo 11, Houston. Computer's yours. Over.
Roger, Charlie. We switched to Omni-D - Delta, and I lost that last transmission. Would you say again, please? The thing I'm wondering about specifically is that earlier you said it would be minus-X thrusters and the PAD indicates plus-X. Do you want me to null that to zero or do you want to add 2 and leave it as a 4?
Rog, Apollo 11. The way we gave it to you in the attitude we're in, it'll be just like the Sep burn that you had yesterday. You'll see - Noun 85 will give you a plus 2 and then you just burn minus-X until you read 4. Over.
Understand.
Apollo 11, Houston. We see you in P41 now. It might take you a couple of minutes to integrate these vectors that we gave you and if you don't make TIG, it's pretty insensitive. You can just let P41 bring you up to TIG, and when you get zero, you can burn on that. Over.
Okay.
Okay. Burn complete. Residuals: plus three balls 40, plus four balls 7, plus four balls 2, Delta-V counter 102.1. Over.
Copy, Apollo 11. Looks good to us. Over.
Okay.
Houston, Apollo 11. How about coming up with a good communications attitude for us to go to between now and the time we maneuver to TEI attitude.
Roger, sir. Stand by.
Hello, Apollo 11, Houston. A couple of things for you. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay. Mike, you can maneuver to your preliminary TEI attitude as shown on page 3-98 of the Flight Plan, and the High Gain angles are good as shown in the Flight Plan, and we'd like you to dump the waste water at 131:05 down to 10 percent. Over.
Okay. Understand I'm going to go to roll 1.1, pitch zero - or 52.6, and yaw 13.8, and you want a waste-water dump 10 percent starting at 131:05.
That's affirmative. Right after LOS.
Maneuver is in progress, Houston.
Copy, 11. Out.
Apollo 11, Houston. Over.
Apollo 11 on the High Gain. How do you read?
Five-by, 11. How me? Over.
You're loud and clear, Charlie. What - What numbers are you looking at for TEI TIG preliminary? 135 hours, 23 minutes; something like that?
That's affirmative, Mike. We're looking at about nominal time. We've considered kicking it up a rev, but we don't think this rev-track is going to be any good since we had the RCS burn and we need some more tracking to get you a good TEI. Over.
That's what we're looking for.
All right, sir.
11, Houston. Looks like it's going to be pretty relaxed time here for the next couple of hours. We'll have you a PAD, of course, the next rev or so, and we'll keep you posted on TEI. Looks like nominal time. Over.
Thank you, Charlie.
And your little maneuver back here a moment ago will put you about 20 miles ahead of the LM at TEI.
Okay.
Imagine the place has cleared out a little bit after that rendezvous. You can find a place to sit down almost, huh?
Roger. Our MOCR's about empty right now. We're taking it a little easy. How does it feel up there to have some company?
Damn good, I'll tell you.
I'll bet. I bet, you'd almost be talking to yourself up there after 10 revs or so.
No, no. It's a happy home up here. It'd be nice to have some company. Be - As a matter of fact, it'd be nice to have a couple of hundred million Americans up here.
Rog. Well, they were with you in spirit.
Let them see what they're getting for their money.
Rog. They were with you in spirit anyway, at least that many. We heard on the news today, 11, that last night after you - yesterday after you made your landing, New York Times came out with a - headlines, the largest headlines they've ever used in the history of the newspaper.
Save us a copy.
I'm glad to hear it was fit to print.
It was great.
That's why we didn't read you up any newscast. There really wasn't anything to talk about.
Hello, there, boss.
Apollo 11, Houston. We've got 10 minutes to LOS. See you over the hill at 131:48. Over.
Okay, Charlie. I'll dump the water as soon as we go around the corner.
Rog. Everything's looking real good now.
Yeah. Same here.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. Coming up to about 4:30 LOS. You're looking great on all your systems. Eagle is purring right along on a - After an hour and thirty on, without any cooling, the PNGS is still looking good. Over.
Roger.
Apollo 11, Houston. Would you verify that your Rendezvous Radar transponder is off? Over.
It's not, but I'll get it off.
Okay.
Rog. We were seeing some - believe it or not, we were seeing some funnies on the Eagle's Rendezvous Radar...
What do you do with it?
Hey - what do you do with it?
Just turn it down to off.
Good theory.
This goes off...
No, no, no, no, that's not the one - it's this switch right next to that IMU...
Oh.
Buzz. Okay, that one. Just turn it to - turn it to Position 1 - extreme left - that one. There you go. Thank you.
I thought you were going to be doing VHF Ranging on the darn thing because we had it set up for - VHF.
I don't know where other than that.
That was to...
You ought to check the Flight Plan, it doesn't mention the probe or the drogue. It says I remove my hatch, and then I notify you that you're clear to open your hatch.
Huh?
Oh, no.
So, that's just the contingency.
No, negative.
That's the contingency.
We move the drogue there..
We've got to reach down and grab that extension handle and all that good stuff.
That was alright, we understand.
Yes.
Damn! My ears hurt from wearing this thing.
How are the earpieces - inside.
Yes, I hate those damn.
Yes, they're not -.
Yes. I believe - Did you hear any noise during - you didn't hear any noise during descent, did you?.
How about during lift-off?
How was lift-off? How did lift-off feel?
Well, there was a little - little blast - then we started moving. Then we could see all those...
were you very stable? I mean, you just sort of floated up or was there a bunch of rattling around?
The floor came up to meet you. I think it multiplied g by - it was about - at lift-off - maybe - half a g or two-thirds of a g.
Well, you know, - well, just looking at that one sample, it was - I'm surprised you didn't have a lot more dust. Now you saw dust during descent, I think, around 40 feet, something like that, 30 feet maybe.
Yes it was...
But its pattern is such that it sprays out horizontally, and it doesn't really come up and engulf you, huh?
All the stuff looks like very light tan and gray, you know, that's - that's the color of it. When you get right up there to it, when you see it, why that isn't the color at all.
Dark - battleship gray, isn't it?
Maybe not - I don't know...
Well, what kind of...
what stuck to the spacecraft, I think you can see afterwards...
What do you think it is from the - geology standpoint, is it basalt dust?
Well, do the rocks - do the rocks all look the same? They're different - good, great. I'm glad to hear it.
There's really a tremendous...
Little sparkly stuff; quite a bit of it all over.
I'll be damned. I'm glad - I'm glad it wasn't just...
Yes, is that right?
Luckily, you were able to get a little bit of everything. I mean, were the rocks - I mean, how did you - did you go around and - just pick up rocks, put them in - in...
We were kind of rushed, if that's what you mean.
Yes.
Great, great. Yes, it's - beautiful. Man, that's beautiful. It doesn't make a dip whether and all that, I mean you know, they mapped the area and all that...
Eventually, it does...
Huh?
Well, eventually, it does - it shows the - you can see those -.
That's great, fantastic! That'll keep those geologists jumping for years.
Yes, you got to keep. No, that's right, you got a 6-foot pole, you just stick...
Sort of like wet sand...
about that far.
Is that right? I don't know. I'm inclined to.
Is this yours?
You yawed right 13 degrees? What's nominal?
Yaw left 13 degrees.
Ah so, ah so.
I guess the main thing on this stowage is to make sure it's reasonable for the g's we'll get during TEI, and some time on the way home we can get everything all squared away for.
No, I'm in no rush. Go ahead - go ahead and get everything all packed away. I hate to have - a couple of suits out. If you want to air it for a while, go ahead and get the hose to it, and - I'm in no rush. I'll take this thing off after you guys are done there.
Yes. Is that right?
You finally got it level, huh? What was that thing that you said it was supposed to be - concave but it was convex?
Yes, yes.
looking down there sure looked like it was convex Neil walked back a little later and it was right smack in the middle...
But there's all different kinds of rocks, huh, or at least several different kinds? Well, how...
Well, did - when you look - when you're walking around or just looking out the window of the LM, did it appear very homogeneous? Everything sort of the same color and all, or did it look?
It's that dark battleship gray like?
When you looked down-Sun, it's very tan, very tan.
When you looked down-Sun, it looks almost white, just a reflection from the Sun.
Well, as it goes out while on Earth it gets in the atmosphere...
Yes.
that might be indicative of why...
Yes.
Neil, when you get a hand, would you push that little goddamn valve down to Dump? Never mind, never mind.
be sure and get the right one...
It's the lower valve on the lower panel - lower left. That guy right there, yes, that guy right there! Put him down to Dump. Dump's easy, fine. Set the clock.
Here's one.
for the hoses? Well, check the ends of the hoses.
Well, why don't you leave the vacuum cleaner. I think you just got now the other one...
No, this one's got.
Okay. Now the one I got is for my hose over here which doesn't have...
How big are the rocks that you just scurried around and picked up with the tongs? Good gravy! Beautiful! Just crack those guys open and get a - you know, virgin interior of them in a vacuum, and they'll have a ball..
Hey, the Velcro - the Velcro around them sort of.
Huh?
I said, this is my field geology.
Right.
We could move - we could move that bag - it's no big thing. We can move the bag. Don't worry about it. We're going to leave it this way for TEI, right? Might as well.
Good day, I don't know. It's - I tell you, it's not a bad way to live, with that couch in there - I sort of - oh, yes, I agree. We can put two up and one down -.
Yes, we could put the couch up now if you want to do that.
Okay.
Yes. Maybe it - maybe it would make more sense to put the couch up now. Why don't you let me wrestle with the couch before we do anything more to this damn poor L-shaped bag?
Alright. And we're - we're LOS here for a while anyway, 131...
Here's about where we are,. Yes, this is the handiest little thing you've ever seen. goes right in the helmet side, won't come out, and you can grab hold of anything you want, and there it is. It won't.
all this little stuff.
is this optional - sort of -? Huh?
No, optional.
No, no, this is - used for the intervalometer?
might have some layers on the wall of that crater. It just occurred to me that - that's got to be the result of of some sort.
is looking good.
Think so.
A little more.
You got to do what, Neil?
I don't think it's harder to than it is - at orbital speeds.. There just isn't any way really of altitude - or the size of this thing.
We're in inertial, aren't we?
No, you want to go to inertial?
I wonder if Neil has made any preparations?
What's your altitude?
I guess we could put - to.
Hey, Neil, I think this - this does have something.
Alright.
Now it's on the other side. No, down, down.
What did you have on?
No, that side. Yes, it was down to 3. He called 30 seconds at one time.
Yes,.
Yes, he called 60 seconds. Then I heard him call 30 seconds.
Yes.
I got it, thank you.
Well, it's held under that forward-velocity unit.
How's that?
With the, I don't see how you can...
Leaving on your in here?
I think - you had that same pair on all the time.
Is that the - sitting there?
Yes, here it is.
Let me put it down here. Bring it on down. Over here. Put them all in one place.
You ready for your underwear? Mike - you ready for your underwear? You ready for your underwear?
Just a minute; yes.
put our - LCG.
Yes.
Somehow we'll figure a way to.
2 feet per second.
You didn't maintain that 3½ feet per second down there.
(Laughing)
Well, I hope - I hope they have the data that shows just what we did have at contact when they can get photographs all the film we got.
Yes.
Well, I really couldn't put the no place, not that I'm sure of it, but my light came on, why, hit.
Yes, that's sure - the way that thing was working - the way that thing was working and stayed locked on all the way down. Geeze, it was a beautiful thing.
You mean you didn't?
Getting all the damn alarms.
Boy, I thought for a while there that some of those might get a little -. I'd re-set the program alarm in time for a out of there.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We're standing by. Everything is looking great here. Over.
Apollo 11. Roger.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. If you guys want it, we've got some news, here, we can read up. Over.
Be pleased to have it.
Rog, Neil. Starting off: Congratulatory messages on the Apollo 11 mission have been pouring into the White House from world leaders in a steady stream all day. Among the latest are telegrams from Prime Minister Harold Wilson of Great Britain and the King of Belgium. The world's press has been dominated by news of Apollo 11. Some newsmen estimate that more than sixty percent of the news used in papers across the country today concerned your mission. The New York Times, which we mentioned before, has had a - such a demand for its edition of the paper today, even though it ran 950,000 copies, that it will reprint the whole thing on Thursday as a souvenir edition. And Premier Alexei Kosygin has sent congratulations to you and President Nixon through former Vice President Humphrey who is visiting Russia. The cosmonauts have also issued a statement of congratulations. Humphrey quoted Kosygin as saying: 'I want you to tell the President and the American people that the Soviet Union desires to work with the United States in the cause of peace'.
And Mrs. Robert Goddard said today that her husband would have been so happy. He wouldn't have shouted or anything. He would just have glowed. She added: 'That was his dream, sending a rocket to the Moon.' People around the world have had - had many reasons to be happy about the Apollo 11 mission. The Italian police reported that Sunday night was the most crime-free night of the year. And in London, a boy who had the faith to bet $5 with a bookie that a man would reach the Moon before 1970 collected $24,000. Pretty good odds.
You're probably interested in the comments your wives have made. Neil, Jan had said about yesterday's activities: 'The evening was unbelievably perfect. It is an honor and a privilege to share with my husband, the crew, the Manned Spacecraft Center, the American public, and all mankind, the magnificent experience of the beginning of lunar exploration.' She was then asked if she considered the Moon landing the greatest moment in her life. She said: 'No, that was the day we were married.' And Mike, Pat said simply: 'It was fantastically marvelous.' Buzz, Joan said - apparently couldn't quite believe the EVA on the Moon. She said: 'It was hard to think it was real until the men actually moved. After the Moon touchdown, I wept because I was so happy.' But she added: 'The best part of the mission will be the splashdown.'
In other news, and there was a little bit, another explorer, Thor Heyerdahl, had to give up his attempt to sail a papyrus boat across the Atlantic. The storm-damaged boat was abandoned about 650 miles from Bermuda. The speed of the craft had been reduced to about 25 miles a day, and Heyerdahl said the object of the voyage had not meant to provide an endurance test for the crew.
Looking at the world of sports, let's see here. While you were busy the other day, Joe Namath and football Commissioner Pete Rozelle made the announcement that Broadway Joe had agreed to sell his interest in the Bachelors III restaurant and report to the New York Jets. And Joe arrived at the Jets' training camp today and had his first workout. Several other Jet players, who had held out along with Joe, also reported. And Davy Hill, from Jackson, Michigan, won his third major golf in as many starts in the past week. He won the Philadelphia Classic. Hill has won four tournaments so far this year and is the leading money winner with a cool $129,000. And in baseball, the west division of the National League remains a tight race. LA and San Francisco are one game behind league-leading Atlanta. The Astros have a record of 48 wins and 48 losses, and are now in fifth place, seven games out. A twin bill between the Astros and Cincinnati last night were postponed because of rain. The Chicago Cubs are still in first place in the East Division. They led the New York Mets by four and a half games. And in the American League, Baltimore is breezing toward the Eastern Division title. They lead second-place Boston by 11 games. Looking ahead, the All-Star game - the All-Star baseball game is scheduled for tomorrow. And President Nixon was scheduled to see the game and then leave immediately after the - after the game for the Pacific splashdown area before going on his tour of Europe. And that about covers the news this day. You guys have been making most of it and I'm sure we couldn't fill you in on any of the details that you don't already know. Out.
Thank you much, Charlie.
You're welcome.
11, Houston. We've got a preliminary TEI-30 PAD, if you're ready to copy.
Ready to copy.
Rog. Coming at you. TEI-30, SPS/G&N: 36691; minus 0.61, plus 0.67; 135:23:41.49. Noun 81, plus 3202.0, plus 0671.3, minus 0277.3; 181, 054, 013. Noun 44, HA is NA, plus 0023.0; 3283.3, 2:28. Delta-VC, 3262.5; 24, 151.0 35.5. Next three lines are NA. Noun 61 plus 11.03, minus - minus 172.37; 1180.6, 36275, 195:04:52. Your set stars are Deneb and Vega, 242, 172, 012. We like two-jet ullage for 16 seconds. And the horizon will be on the 11-degree mark at TIG minus 2 minutes. And in the other comments: your sextant star is visible after GET of 134:50. Ready for your readback. Over.
Roger. We have a TEI-30, SPS/G&N: 36691, minus 0.61, plus 0.67; 135:23:41.49. Plus 3202.0, plus 0671.3, minus 0277.3; 181, 054, 013. NA, plus 0023.0; plus 3283.3, 2:28, 3262.5; 24, 151.0, 35.5. NA three times. Plus 11.03, minus 172.37; 1180.6, 36275, 195:04:52. Deneb and Vega, 242, 172, 012. Two-jet ullage, 16 seconds. Horizon 11-degree line at TIG minus 2 minutes. Sextant star visible after 134:50. Over.
Rog, Mike. Good readback. Out.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. Seven minutes to LOS. Next AOS 133:46. You're looking good going over the hill. Out.
Will that one do?.
Are you staying in this inertial attitude? Let's just leave it in Reacq then. It works just like a charm.
Yes, that's right.
How about that?
Beautiful.
405 and 404 - What's the matter with it? (Laughter)
403 I think we.
alignment, oops, I got 404 again.
How about that, wise asses! Huh?
You had a - you had to work though, didn't you?.
O2 fuel cell's.
This is not dumping.
I figured that.
Did you try the other line?
Well - no, I haven't tried a whole number of alternatives. In fact, number 1 is not dumping. My guess would be that it's something to do with this connection in the UCD or something like that. When you try to dump your regular urine bag,. It's so goddamn smelly, I hate to grab it and dick around with it, but I guess I got to.
Not entirely. I think I'd rather stick around.
How long does it take to warm up this thing? 3 hours?
What state vector is in the LM slot? The LM?
minus a few feet per second..
Well, we got something in the LM slot not equal to us.
Well, that's just an old vectors, because I never did Verb 66, I don't think, after.
We got 22 feet per second. Almost have to be LM - previous to the SEP burn.
Well, when it gets to be light, we got to.
Well, we probably ought to - TPI.
Yes, the maneuver right amount of.
give me a waste bag..
Yes, just a lot there.
It was back here.
Yes.
Who took the roll of tape?
Isn't it in its place? Closet?
No, no, it's not in there. It doesn't have that closet any more. The last I saw it, it was up on the MDC. I gave it - I handed it over to one of you guys to...
Yes, I stuck it some place.
Let's invent a new home for it because that old home is full of a smelly old urine bag.
The floodlight isn't - hasn't even made the bottom of the package warm yet, fellows.
Well, when it goes up there, we'll have to put it up here.
I got the tape - right underneath your couch. Okay?
Alright.
Okay, we need a new home for the tape. Anybody got any good suggestions?
What about in the space?.
Okay?
Alright.
That was quite a wild gyration for docking.
It was.
Son-of-a-bitching...
You did a pretty good.
If I'd known how it was going to develop, I wouldn't have gone as far with the bottle as I did. I was in the habit of it, you know, as soon as contact is made, I look at it. It looks okay, I fire the bottle right away.
No, I would.
No, no.
No sooner than I fired that goddamned bottle, than wow! And away we went.
No - they're way down so, I don't know - just.
At contact I went free. Then, when I - then I fired the bottle, and then, just about all that came since the thing started, I went back to CMC, Auto, it bought it. And just about that time all - all those lights were flashing. And I thought maybe. I thought we were.
I mean later on all those.
Pretty good.
Yes.
Figured nobody could - knew where we were..
Hey, did we decide the window shade back?
No, the data should go to the log. The only good thing to say about it is.
you guys. love them.
All that probe and drogue and claptrap works. All that EVA transfer, you can forget about that and all those crazy procedures for taking that probe apart.
At least, we can forget them until the debriefing.
Yes (laughter).
This thing make a great.
Picked up the CSM problem.
I've never thought about it.
No.
All at once.
None of them.
Yes.
long time.
It's?
You got something?
Yes. Right across the breach. Okay. Look at that.
