Good afternoon, Houston. Apollo 11 up. [Long pause.]
Good morning, 11. This is Houston. Over.
Okay. Crew status report. 8, 8 and 8.5.
Roger. 8, 8 and 8.5. When you're ready, we've got a small Flight Plan update for you. [Long pause.]
Houston, we're ready to copy.
Roger. At about 148 hours, if you've not already done so, a CO2 filter change, and the H2 purge line heater on 20 minutes before the O2 and H2 purge. At 148 hours, we'd like you to initiate a charge on Battery Alpha instead of at 151 hours, and leave the charge on until we notify you further. At 150 hours GET, waste-water dump to 10 percent. We do plan to burn Midcourse Correction 5. It will be an RCS burn about 5 feet per second [1.5 m/s] at about the nominal time in the Flight Plan. Over. [Long pause.]
Roger. Understand. We'll be accomplishing the filter change shortly, the purge line heater is on, and we'll take care of O2 and H2 purge shortly, and at 148 will initiate a charge on Battery A until you notify us further. 150 hours, waste-water dump to 10 percent. And we're looking forward to Midcourse Correction 5 at about 5 feet per second at the nominal time. Over.
Roger. I've got your consumables update, if you're ready to copy. [Pause.]
Copy.
Okay. At GET of 147 plus 00, RCS total minus 2.0 per cent, which is about minus 14 pounds. Alpha minus 12.0, Bravo plus 10.0, minus 3.0, minus 2.0. Hydrogen total, minus 1.5 pounds; O2 total, plus 20 pounds. Over. [Pause.]
Roger. I copy, and our onboard readouts - Alpha 53 percent, Bravo 54 percent, Cocoa's 64 percent, Delta 61 percent. Over.
Roger, 11. Would you read that quad Alpha again, please, Buzz. You're cutting out. It may be - are you operating on VOX? Over.
Negative. Alpha is 53 percent. Over.
Roger. We copy. [Long pause.]
11, from down here on telemetry, all your systems look to be in good shape.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger. Would you ask Buzz to check his biomedical TM sensors for a loose or dried out sensor? We're getting erratic electrocardiogram readings. That would be one of the three sternal leads. Over.
Okay. [Garble].
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Say again your last, please.
Disregard.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Stand by for a Mark leaving the lunar sphere of influence.
Mark.
You're leaving the lunar sphere of influence. Over.
Roger. Is Phil Shaffer down there?
Negative. But we've got a highly qualified team on in his stead.
Rog. I wanted to hear him explain it again at the press conference.
Okay.
That's old Apollo 8 joke but tell him the spacecraft gave a little jump as it went through the sphere.
Okay. I'll pass it on to him. Thanks a lot, and Dave Reed is sort of burying his head in his arms right now.
Roger that.
Those guys down there in the trench did a pretty good job this flight.
Yes, they have. [Long pause.]
We don't want them to give up yet, though.
No. They'll hang in there for about another 47 hours or so.
Okay.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. If you're not busy now, I can read you up the morning news.
Okay. We're all listening.
Say again, 11?
Roger. We're all listening. Go ahead.
Roger. From the hot wires of the Public Affairs Office, Apollo 11 still dominates the news around the world. Only four nations - Communist China, North Korea, North Vietnam, and Albania - have not yet informed their citizens of your flight and landing on the Moon. One newsman said that he has run out of ways to describe your success. Tonight, President Nixon is scheduled to watch the All Star baseball game in Washington. After the game, he will depart for the Pacific recovery area. Wednesday evening, he will fly from Johnston Island by helicopter to the Navy communications ship Arlington. Then on Thursday morning, he will reboard the helicopter and fly to the Hornet in time to witness your splashdown. Accompanying the President will be Secretary of - Secretary of State William Rogers and Frank Borman. They will watch the splashdown from the bridge of the recovery ship with Admiral John Sidney McCain, Jr., Commander of the Pacific Forces. Following the President's stay aboard the Hornet, he will depart for his tour of Asia and scheduled visit to Romania. Luna 15 is believed to have crashed into the Sea of Crises yesterday after orbiting the Moon 52 times. The Soviet News Agency TASS reported that, quote, scientific research in near-Moon space was carried out, unquote. Sir Bernard Lovell at Jodrell Bank Observatory said that Luna 15 hit the surface of the Moon at a speed of about 300 miles per hour. Things have been relatively quiet recently in Vietnam. GIs on patrol were observed carrying transistor radios tuned into your flight. The Armed Forces radio and TV network in Vietnam gave the mission full coverage. Skirmishes still continue between the Egyptians and Israelis along the Suez Canal. UN observers there are trying to halt the action. In Washington, the House Ways and Means Committee has voted to reduce the 27.5 percent oil depletion allowance to 20 percent. We've had rain several times here in the Houston area. Today it is cloudy, and more showers are expected. On the sports front, as we mentioned earlier, the All Star game is tonight. There were no games played yesterday. Last night in New York, the Baseball Writers Association of America named Ba - Babe Ruth the greatest ball player of all time. Joe DiMaggio was named the greatest living ball player. Frank Borman made the announcements at a dinner honoring the players. Joe Namath put in a full day at the New York Jets' training camp. Five policemen had a hard time restraining about 500 kids who wanted to touch Broadway Joe. He said he feels fine and will play in the All Star game August 1 if Coach Weeb Ewbank lets him. The Oilers' camp at Kerrville got wet yesterday, but the workouts continued. There have been some minor injuries, but nothing too serious. Coach Wally Lemm is satisfied so far with the workouts. The Oilers are expecting attendance by over 30,000 for the preseason game with Buffalo. Apparently, Don Meredith's retirement isn't expected to dampen enthusiasm, especially around here in Houston. Mario Andretti won the 200-mile Trenton Auto Race, Sunday, and is now the leading race driver in the US Auto Club's point standings. And that's about the summary of the morning news this afternoon in Houston. Over.
Would you look up the Dow Jones Industrials for us.
Roger. Stand by a minute, please.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We see you in P00. When you can give us Accept, we have a state vector and target load uplink ready for you. [Long pause.]
Roger, Houston. Go ahead. You've got the computer.
Roger. Thank you.
Apollo 11, we've completed the uplink. The computer's yours.
Thank you.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger. With respect to the Dow Jones Industrials, since closing on Tuesday afternoon the 15th up to about 1:05 p.m. Houston time this afternoon, why, the effect has been a net drop. That is, minus 6 points on the industrial average. So far today since opening, the Dow Jones industrial average has gone down by 11.05 after rising 1½ shortly after opening. Today's performance on the utilities is a drop of 1.63; and railroads, a drop of 1.58. Over. [Pause.]
Yeah. Every flight has to have some disadvantages, I guess.
Roger. Some speculation that you all are responsible for that 1½-point rise right after opening. [Pause.]
Well, don't blame the 11-point drop on us, anyway.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, this is Houston. If you have a minute or so free, I wonder if we could get Mike to give us a little bit of clarification on what happened around about the time of docking. We copied him as mentioning that contact was very smooth, almost imperceptible, and we're a little bit inquisitive or curious about his remarks as to what happened after probe retraction. Over.
Roger. I docked in CMC Auto, and as I said, I wasn't really sure of the moment of contact. I kept cross-checking the docking probe indicators. I got two barber poles indicating that the three capture latches - not capture latches, but the three giz-maches had made, and we were soft docked. And at that time the situation looked very stable. So, I went to CMC Free, glanced back out the window. It still looked stable and I fired primary 2 bottle. And at that time, a gyration began between the two vehicles due I'm not sure to what. Perhaps the LM thrusting or perhaps it was building up prior, and I hadn't noticed it. But anyway, during the Retract of the probe, there were yaw - my yaw excursions of, I would guess, around 15 degrees, and I had to come back on, take the Free switch and throw it back to Auto, and try to damp them out; and I guess Neil was doing the same in the LM. I'll let you tell him about his side of it. And I thought that we were not going to get a successful Retraction and hard dock. However, in about - oh, I guess 6 or 8 seconds, I did hear - could see the situation damping out, and then we heard the noise indicating the docking latches had fired; and later on when I got into the tunnel, all 12 of them had properly engaged.
Roger.
And on the LM side, we were in AGS Min deadband Att Hold, and at contact, I thrusted plus-X. And shortly after that we had a sizable attitude oscillation and thruster firing, so we opened up the deadband to Max and manually flew the vehicle into stable attitude during the retraction. And we went to Off after [garble] completion of retraction.
Roger. Thank you very much. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. I have your Midcourse Correction 5 PAD available when you're ready to copy.
Stand by.
Houston, Apollo 11. Ready to copy.
11, this is Houston. Midcourse Correction number 5. RCS/G&N: 26025, pitch and yaw trim NA, TIG 150:29:54.53; minus 0004.8, plus all balls, plus 0000.1; 075, 159, 328. HA is NA; HP, plus 0023.0. 0004.8, 0:11, 0004.8. Sextant star 03, 090.8, 38.2. Boresight star block, none available. Latitude plus 11.02, minus 172.04; 1180.3, 36275, 195:03:33; GDC align, Deneb and Vega, 007, 144, 068; no ullage of course, four-quad thrusting. Over. Read back.
Roger. Midcourse number 5. RCS/G&N: 26025, pitch and yaw NA, 150:29:54.53, minus 0004.8, plus all zeros, plus 0000.1; 075, 159, 328. NA, plus 0023.0; 0004.8, 0:11, 0004.8. 03, 090.8, 38.2. NA three times. Plus 11.02, minus 172.04, 1180.3, 36275, 195:03:33; Deneb and Vega, 007, 144, 068; and four quads for the burn. Over.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Readback correct. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Roger. Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. If Neil has a free minute, we've got a question or two regarding the CO2 partial pressure and water in the suit loop discrepancies noted yesterday. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger, 11. Was water noted in both suits or only in yours, Neil?
I think only in my suit.
Okay. Can you locate that occurrence for us in time when you first noticed water in the suit, either by mission time or relation to any particular event? [Long pause.]
I think it was after insertion sometime, Bruce. I don't remember exactly when. I - It was when we were in orbit and had our - after we took our helmets off.
Roger. Did you call it to us when you first noticed it, or was it some time after, when you called it?
I'd guess it might have been probably 20 minutes after I noticed it that I mentioned it to you.
Roger. Was this noticing the water accompanied by erratic CO2 partial pressure readings, or was that a separate problem? Over. [Pause.]
Well, the water problem evidenced itself before we noted any erratic motions of the PCO2 gauge.
Roger. And what was the relative sequence on selecting water separator number 2 and the secondary CO2 canister? That is, did you go to the secondary water separator first and then the secondary CO2? Over. [Pause.]
I believe we went to secondary CO2 first.
Secondary hydroxide - lithium hydroxide.
Roger. We copy. And was there any change in your suit loop...
No.
Go ahead.
I should mention, Bruce, that when I went to water secondary - water separator to secondary there, I didn't notice any change. But about after 15 minutes or 20 minutes, the water stopped coming out. So maybe that was just water that was already in the loop that was still blowing out, but the secondary water separator was operating properly.
Roger. Did you make any changes in the suit loop configuration after you went from the egress mode to the cabin mode after insertion? That is, in particular, they're interested in knowing if you recall changing the diverter valve position to Egress at any time while you were on the secondary canister? Over.
No. I don't believe we did that at all, Bruce.
Okay, 11. Thank you. That sums up our questions for now, and we'll crank these back into the engineering pipeline and see what we can come up with.
Okay. Are you satisfied that the CO2 circuit breaker was in on jettison? Over.
Say again, please?
Roger. On LM jettison, are you satisfied that the CO2 circuit breaker was in? Over.
Yes. It was in.
Roger. Could you confirm that? I thought there was some question after we got into the Command Module as to whether that had been left in or not. Over. [Pause.]
Roger, 11. It was in and confirmed in, and the readings after jettison stayed about 0.1 to 0.2.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We have not noticed any change in the signal coming through on the LMP's EKG. When he has a little free time, we'd like him to check into it again. Over.
Roger. I looked at all three of the upper chest center ones, and they appear to be fairly tight. I'll push them back in again. Over.
Roger. On the TM here, we noticed some fluctuations that may have been attributed to your moving the sensors around or pushing on them, but the erratic problem seems to be persisting.
Houston, Apollo 11. Over. [Long pause.]
11, this is Houston. Over.
Roger. I wonder if you've noticed any change in the Biomed return you're getting. Over.
Negative, Buzz. It still looks kind of bad. Apparently, when you move around, it's cutting in and out. Have you checked the little electrical connector where it goes into the signal conditioner? Over.
Yes. They're all about as tight as can be. I tell you what - I'll take them off and put them back on again and see if that makes any difference.
Okay. If you would, at your convenience. We'll be watching it down here.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We'd like you to try acquisition on the High Gain Antenna for us at pitch minus 90, yaw 270. Over.
Roger. That's in work.
Roger. Out.
11, this is Houston. We're showing about 6.8 percent on waste water on our telemetry now. Over. [Pause.]
Okay. Got about 9, up here. Over.
Roger. Out.
11, Houston. We're standing by for your burn. Everything's looking good from down here.
Thank you, Bruce. You've got about a minute and 20 seconds.
Roger. We concur.
Houston, you copy our residuals? [Long pause.]
Roger. We've got your residual. Do you have a counter reading for us.
Delta-VC is plus 0.2.
Roger. Plus 0.2.
That was actually plus 100.2. Okay?
Okay.
Hou - Houston, Apollo 11.
Go ahead, 11.
Roger. We're in PTC attitude and would you please give us a call when our thruster activity has subsided sufficiently?
Roger. Stand by.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We're going to hand over from Madrid to Goldstone at 151 hours even. If you should lose lock on the High Gain at this time, you may reacquire at pitch minus 45, yaw 270. Break. We're still watching your rates. Over.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
[Faint] Apollo 11 here. [Pause.]
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over. [Pause.]
Go ahead, Houston.
11, we're still seeing rates on your spacecraft above those that we'd like for any - continuation of the PTC mode. We're still monitoring it, and we'll advise you when it's settled down. Over.
Okay.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. You are go for the spin-up on PTC. Over.
Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 11. Over.
Go ahead, 11.
Rog. It didn't like it that time. When I got down to the entry 27303 Enter, it took off in roll at a high rate in excess of 1 degree per second. Over. I've stopped it now, and we are going to have to go back and do it over again. I'd like to try to find out the reason why it did that.
Roger. You might as well start setting up for it, and we'll be working the problem here.
Okay. Do you have us on high bit rate here now?
That's affirmative.
Okay, good. I'll maneuver back to PTC initiation attitude while you guys look at the data and see what you think.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 11. I think the reason is in having 16 20 on the DSKY during the subsequent entries, or at least that's one possibility.
Roger. We'll check it out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. While you're waiting for the CSM to settle down and for us to look at the tapes on your latest maneuver, would you feel like answering some more questions with relation to the lunar surface? Over. [Pause.]
Go ahead.
Go ahead, Bruce.
Roger. For 64 thousand dollars, we're still trying to work out the location of your landing site, Tranquillity Base. We think it is located on LAM-2 chart at Juliet 0.5 and 7.8. Do you still have those charts on board? Over.
Yeah. Stand by one. They're packed.
Roger. You may not have to unpack it. The position which I just gave you is slightly west of West Crater. I guess it's about two-tenths of a kilometer west of it, and we were wondering if Neil or Buzz had observed any additional landmarks during descent, lunar stay, or ascent which would confirm or disprove this. One thing that we're wondering about is that if you were at this position, you would have seen the Cat's Paw during ascent just up to the north of your track. Over.
We were looking for the Cat's Paw, too, thinking we were probably downrange, beyond the Big V. But I think that it's likely that that might have been West Crater that we went across in landing, but - Stand by. [Long pause.]
We're hoping, Bruce, that our 16-mm film was working at that point in descent, and we'll be able to confirm our touchdown position. We thought that during ascent we might be able to pick up some recognizable objects close to the landing site, and we did see a number of small craters, and crater rows, and things like that, which we may be able to pick out after the fact, but we haven't been able to yet.
Roger. And the next question from our panel is for Buzz. We recall that he reported seeing a laser upon AOS of the Earth the first time after - the first rev after ascent, and we're wondering what color the beam was and if he could determine at the approximate location with respect to the Earth. Over.
It was mostly white, perhaps a tinge of yellowish color to it. And it seemed to be - as I recall it, the terminator of the Earth was toward the horizon and seemed to be about a quarter to a third of the way down from - down towards the terminator of the Earth - from the opposite horizon. That's a third to a quarter Earth radii. Over.
Roger. And that puts it in the light side? Over.
Roger. Yes, it was in the light side. The Earth was about - a two-thirds lit Earth, with the terminator down toward the horizon. And now coming from the opposite limb of the Earth, the sunlit limb, coming down about one-quarter to one-third of a radius in from the limb. Generally, centrally located with respect to a line drawn perpendicular to the terminator that goes through the center. Over.
Roger, Buzz. We copy.
And I got pictures of that. I'm sure that'll show up.
And I saw that, too. It was a very bright spot of light and I confirm Buzz's observation of its position.
Okay, 11. Very good. Now, with respect to the documented sample container - on television it appeared to us as though the samples for that container were in fact being given - being selected in accordance with some thought or consideration being given to the rocks themselves. And we were wondering if you could give any further details from memory about any of these samples, and the context of the material or the surface from which they were taken. Over.
Yes. You remember I initially started on the cut side of the LM that the TV camera was on, and I took a number of samples of rocks on the surface, and several that were just subsurface - about 20 - 15 to 20 feet north of the LM. And then I recalled that that area had been probably swept pretty well by the exhaust of the descent engine, so I crossed over to the southern side of the LM and took a number of samples from the area around the elongate double crater that we commented on and several beyond that and tried to take as many different types - of rock types as I could see by eye, as I could in the short time we had available. There were a number of other samples that I had seen earlier in our stroll around the LM that I had hoped to get back and pick up and put in the documented sample, but I didn't get those and I'll be able to comment on those in detail when we get in the debriefing session.
Roger. Did you observe any small craters with conspicuously blocky rims? Over.
Well, aside from the real big one that we went over, I guess there were none in our area. I took a stroll back after putting up the PSEP [Passive Seismic Experiment Package], and while Buzz was starting to unpack [likely means 'pack up'] the documented sample, took - took a stroll back to a crater behind us that was maybe 70 or 80 feet in diameter and 15 or 20 feet deep, and took some pictures of it. It had rocks in the bottom of pretty good size, considerably bigger than any that were out on the surface, but there was no - we apparently, at 15 feet or so, had not gotten below the regolith. We were essentially showing no bedrock, at least in the walls of the crater at that depth. Over.
Roger. We copy. [Long pause.]
Okay. Thank you, Neil. That about wraps up the questions we have on hand for now.
Okay. [Long pause.]
My compliments to the chef. The food is outstanding. This cream of chicken soup I give at least three spoons.
Okay. Cream of chicken, three spoons.
Apollo 11, This is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
11, we concur that having Verb 16, Noun 20 up on the DSKY may well have had some effect on your PTC initiation. It looks like this would give - let the computer work with a knowledge of the actual CDU angles. What we'd like you to do is, do a CDU zero which is Verb 40, Noun 20, Enter, and then start the PTC procedure again at Step 2 with loading Verb 6, Noun 22, desired attitude in the Auto maneuver, and all that. Over.
Okay. The only thing I don't understand about that is why it took off at the rate it did. What rate should it have taken off at under that theory?
Stand by a minute, Mike.
11, CMP, this is Houston. Over. [Pause.]
Go ahead, Houston.
Mike, over here on page 9-7 of your checklist where we're setting up PTC, there's been a note penciled in after: 'Wait 20 minutes for rates to damp. Do not monitor Verb 16, Noun 20.' It turns out that the significance of that is that, if you are monitoring 16 Noun 20, then when you get down here in step 7, the second time you do a Verb 24, you've got to reload the Noun 01, to make it 'Verb 24, Noun 01, Enter', before you load the three registers. Over.
Roger, that. I was just questioning the rate at which the maneuver would begin if that were not done.
Roger. We're still working on computing the rate for you. [Long pause.]
Apollo 11, this is Houston. We'd like you to select Reacq mode on the High Gain Antenna. Looks like we're about to lose you. Over.
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston broadcasting in the blind. If you read us, attempt to acquire on Omni antennas. Attempt to acquire us on Omni antennas, if you read. This is Houston. Out. [No answer.]
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston broadcasting in the blind. If you read, attempt acquisition on an Omni antenna. Attempt acquisition using an Omni antenna. Over. [No answer.]
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston broadcasting in the blind. If you read, attempt contact using Omni antennas, using an Omni antenna. This is Houston. Out. [No answer.]
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston broadcasting in the blind. If you read us, attempt acquisition using an Omni antenna. Attempt acquisition using an Omni antenna. This is Houston. Out. [No answer.]
[Garble] Goldstone.
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston. Radio check. Over. [No answer.]
[Garble].
Apollo 11, this is Houston. How do you read? Over.
Loud and clear, Bruce. How me?
Roger. What antenna are you using? [Long pause.]
Houston, Apollo 11 is calling you on the High Gain. How do you read? Over.
Roger. Loud and clear on the High Gain. [Long pause.]
So what's new?
Oh, we were wondering what was new with you up there.
All very quiet. We're just sitting here letting the thruster firing damp down. When they get good enough, let us know, and we'll start this PTC.
Roger. [Long pause.]
Nice to sit here and watch the Earth getting larger and larger and the Moon smaller and smaller.
Roger. We'll give you a call when your rates have damped down sufficiently, and we're unable at the present time to predict what rate you should have seen at your last attempt to initiate PTC. We saw about 2½ degrees per second. Over.
Yeah. I believe that. [Long pause.]
Buzz thinks we should have a PTC program built into the computer. He could very well be right.
Houston, Apollo 11.
Go ahead, 11.
Rog. Just checking the radios, and how is the thruster activity coming?
11, Houston. The radios are still in good shape, and we're still waiting for your rates to decay. We've got 0.03 degrees per second in pitch now.
Okay. We're - we're in no rush. This is a very pleasant attitude, as a matter of fact. The Sun is down in the LEB, so it's not shining through the windows and heating the place up. We've got the Earth steady out Window 1. We have the Moon steadily out Window 3 and, of course, we're locked up on the High Gain. So as long as the thermal people are happy, we're happy.
Roger. We copy.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Okay, 11. We're about ready to start PTC. I'd like to give you some High Gain Antenna angles, though. We'd like to operate in the Reacq mode, and do you plan on spinning up in the positive or negative direction? Over.
We can do it either way. I had planned the positive.
Okay. For positive, the High Gain Antenna setting should be pitch plus 30, yaw 270, and in Reacq. Over.
Understand. Reacq, pitch plus 30, yaw 270. Thank you.
Roger. And if you would, when you're making your DSKY entries to set up for PTC, go a little slower, and we'll try to follow each entry from down here. Over.
Roger that.
Houston, 11. PTC established.
Roger, 11.
11, Houston. We observe the PTC to be fairly well established here, and we'll keep you posted on how it's going, and your friendly White Team commentator is taking over now.
Okay. Thanks to all you Black Team.
That was the Green Team.
Correction, all you Green Team - correction, Green Team. Excuse me.
Roger. Out. [Long pause.]
How could I forget? I used to be a Green one.
Hello, Apollo 11, Houston. Your White Team is now on. We're standing by for an exciting evening of TV and a pre-sleep report. Over.
[Shrieking noises then some laughter.]
Apollo 11, Houston. You sure you don't have anybody else in there with you?
Houston, Apollo 11. Say again, please.
We had some strange noises coming down on the downlink, and it sounded like you had some friends up there.
Where - where do the White Team go during their off hours anyway?
Say again.
