Apollo 11, Houston. Are you up and at them yet? Over.
Well, we're up, at least, Owen.
Eyeballing my Magellanic Clouds. Over.
11, Houston. Got your signals loud and clear, here. How are things this morning? Over.
Do you read us, Owen?
Roger. Loud and clear, 11.
Okay. Everything seems to be all right here. So far, we haven't been looking in the cockpit yet. We've been spending our time looking outside the cockpit..
Roger, 11. You're breaking up just a little bit there, Neil. Your signals are loud but are breaking up occasionally. Your spacecraft all looks good here from the ground. We noticed you stirring around the cockpit and thought we'd give you a call. Over.
Good morning.
11, Houston. We do have a few items for you here, Entry PADs, consumables, and so forth. After you've had a chance to get organized, whenever you're ready to start on a few of these items, why, we'll read them up to you. Over.
Okay. Stand by.
Go ahead, Owen. I've got the books out. Ready to copy.
Okay, Buzz. On your Flight Plan items, a few updates first of all. We've cancelled Midcourse number 6. Just remain - remain in PTC. Give you a little more time this morning. Second item on the Flight Plan is we're ready for a Batt B charge any time you want to put it on the line. And third item, we'd like a waste water dump a little differently this time. We'd like to do it on our marks from the ground. The PTC is a little bit ragged, and we would like to make the water dump at a time which we think will hold it in its proper configuration, so it looks like we'll have a desirable opportunity coming along in - between 15 and 20 minutes. And on our mark, we would like to have a waste-water dump down to about 40 percent. I'll give you a more accurate level for the water dump a little later. Over.
Roger. Someone must have stayed up all night figuring this one out.
11, Houston. Stand by just a moment here until we get out of the null position on the antenna.
11, Houston. We're over on Omni Delta now. I think we can read you better. Did you get all those first three items on your Flight Plan update? Over.
I got midcourse correction canceled, Battery B charge and water dump on your call. Over.
That's right, Buzz. And the last item here, we do request that we do a P52, even now, though, we're not doing the midcourse correction, and we'll suggest you get to that after the waste-water dump has been complete. We also have a state vector update for you, if you can give us P00 and Accept. Over.
Okay. You have the DSKY now.
Roger. We'll be sending that up, and I'll give you your consumables update now. It's - for a time of 170 hours. Your RCS total is minus 3.5 percent, Alpha is minus 14.5, Bravo plus 7, Charlie minus 4.5, Delta minus 3; hydrogen total is minus 1, and your oxygen total is plus 24. Over.
Roger. Copy those. And onboard readouts, D is 69, C is 73, B is - Let me start over again. Okay. A is 51 and B is 62, C is 63 and D is 59. Over.
Roger, 11. Copy those, and we've checked them here on the ground, also. One correction to my last transmission. We would like that P52 prior to the waste-water dump, which is coming up in about 30 minutes from now. Will that be possible? Over.
Oh, yeah. We'll take care of that.
Roger. And if you're ready for an Entry PAD, I'll read that up to you now also, 11.
Ready to copy.
Okay. Entry PAD is area MidPac: 359, 153, 001; 194:46:03, 267; plus 11.02, minus 172.03; 06.7; 36194, 6.55; 1187.5, 36275; 195:03:03; 00:28. DL and VL, all four are not applicable. D0, 4.00, 02:10; 00:18, 03:38, 08:21. 44, 293.2, 38.0. Boresight star is Scorpio Theta, up 31.4, right 3.4, lift vector up. Comments: Entry data assumes no midcourse maneuvers. Your Earth entry minus 30 minutes horizon check, 194 plus 33 plus 03. Your pitch is 297. This assumes an entry REFSMMAT. Your GDC align stars are Deneb and Vega. Roll, pitch, yaw; 078, 233, 340. Read back. Over.
Roger. MidPac Entry PAD: 359, 153, 001; 194:46:03, 267; plus 11.02, minus 172.03; 06.7; 36194, 6.55; 1187.5, 36275; 195:03:03; 00:28. DL and VL NA. 4.00, 02:10; 00:18, 03:38, 08:21. 44, 293.2, 38.0. Scorpii Delta Scorpii Theta, up 31.4, right 3.4; up. No midcourse correction. Horizon, EI minus 30, 194:33:03. Pitch 297. Deneb and Vega. 078, 233, 340. Over.
11, Houston. That's roger. Copy. 11, it's also your computer. You can go back to Block.
Roger.
Okay, Houston. The crew status report is 8½, 7, and 8.
11, Houston. Roger, Neil. 8½, 7, and 8 for your crew status.
Right.
11, Houston. Your P52 looked good here on the ground, and we are now estimating that water dump will occur along about 171 plus 40, and we'd like for you to dump to 45 percent. This should let you arrive at Earth Interface with just about a full load of waste water. Over.
Understand 151:40 approximately. To 40 percent.
11, Houston. We'd like to advance the time on that water dump to about 171 plus 30 just after we reacquire on the next Omni, and - as I mentioned, it'll be down to 45 percent - is the new quantity. Also, we're standing by for your CM RCS injector temperature readout. Over.
Apollo 11, Houston. I'm not certain you copied my last transmission, as we were just in the process of switching Omnis. We'd like to advance the time on that water dump to about 5 minutes from now. And we'll give you a precise mark on the time to start the dump, and we are standing by for a readout on your CM RCS injector temperatures. Over.
Okay, Owen. We're standing by for your mark, and stand by for the readout.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 11. Are you ready to copy injector temperatures? I'll read them in volts.
That's affirm. Go ahead, Mike.
Okay. 2-4 is reading 4.7 volts, 2-5 is reading 4.8 volts, 1-2 is reading 4.8 volts, 1-4 is reading 4.8. 1-6, 4.5; and 2-1, 4.8. Over.
11, Houston. Roger those - I got them all.
Apollo 11, Houston. We're ready to start your waste water dump at this time. Over.
Roger. Dumping.
Apollo 11, Houston. We show you...
Houston, Apollo 11. We've dumped to 45 percent, and are stopping now. Do you concur?
Roger, 11. We concur.
Apollo 11, Houston. I can read up your forecast weather for the recovery area any time you'd like to hear about it. Over.
Go ahead.
11, Houston. Present forecast shows acceptable conditions in your recovery area - 2,000-foot scattered, high scattered, wind from 070 degrees, 13 knots, visibility 10 miles, and sea state about 4 feet. The forecast yesterday showed a tropical storm, Claudia, some 500 to 1,000 miles east of Hawaii. The - the pictures from Earth satellites taken yesterday afternoon - afternoon showed Claudia dissipating, so this appears to be even less a factor than it was before. Your recovery area is now believed to be just a little ways north of the inter-tropical convergence zone which you can probably see when you look out your windows there. Yesterday there was also a report of a tropical storm, Viola, further to the west. Its present location is some thousand miles east of the Phillipines and moving northwest. Tropical storm Viola has been intensifying and should be transferred to the typhoon category within the next 12 hours or so. However, that will be far to your west. As a matter of fact, sunrise terminator has not yet reached Viola. When it does several hours from now, you can probably distinguish it from your viewpoint quite readily. As a matter of fact it should be of interest to perhaps take some pictures. Comment upon it when you do get a chance to see Viola in a few hours. So that's about the present weather state and situation for your recovery area. Over.
Okay, sounds pretty good.
Apollo 11, Houston. Over,
Go right ahead, Houston.
11, Houston. We'd like to try an operation on the - with the High Gain array here. If you would select Reacquire and your S-Band antenna to High Gain, your positions are pitch plus 40 and yaw 270, and then monitor for acquisition. Over.
Okay. It's in work.
11, Houston. We're just now ready to switch from Omni Delta over to your High Gain Antenna. Can you confirm that you have gone to Reacq? Over.
Confirmed.
That looks real good, Mike. Looks like we picked up about 30 dB on the signal strength.
Yeah. It came in quite quickly. However, I'm showing about 240 yaw and about - about zero degrees pitch, now.
Roger. About 240 and 0.
Apollo 11, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Ah, just wanted to make sure you fellows hadn't gone back to sleep again. And I also have a little bit of late news here if you'd like to find out what's happened in the last 12-14 hours. Over.
Okay. Go ahead.
Okey doke. Hot off the press here, we find Juan Carlos was formally designated yesterday - Tuesday - to become General Franco's successor - as the Chief of State of Spain and eventual King. Juan Carlos will be sworn in today as his successor designate after taking an oath of loyalty to the law and the National Movement, Spain's only legal political organization. He will apparently be called the Prince of Spain.
House Ways and Means Committee also has agreed yesterday to tax changes affecting oil companies, also banks and utilities, which could add as much as 2 billion dollars per year to the federal revenue. The committee also voted tentatively to change the accounting procedures for telephone, electric, gas, and oil pipeline companies and to reduce tax benefits of mutual savings and loan institutions. So, it looks as if tax reform may be on the way.
Looking overseas, we find South Korea's first super highway, linking Seoul with the Port of Inchon, has been named the Apollo Highway to commemorate your trip. I think we mentioned last night that President Nixon has already started on his round-the-world trip, and today he is in San Francisco on his first stop which will take him to the U.S.S. Hornet, from which he'll watch the return of your spacecraft. He plans to visit seven nations including Romania during this trip. He, as I think you also knew, had to miss the All Star baseball game yesterday, as it was rained out, but is being played today.
The West Coast residents in Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; Vancouver, British Columbia; and San Francisco all plan to make their areas visible to the three of you by lighting their lights between 9 pm and midnight tonight, according to the Associated Press. We do have clear weather predicted there, so that you may be able to see Christmas lights, porch lights, store lights, and whatever may be turned on.
Good show.
A little closer to home here, back in Memphis, Tennessee, a young lady who is presently tipping the scales at 8 pounds, 2 ounces, was named Module by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Eddie Lee McGhee. 'It wasn't my idea,' said Mrs. McGhee, 'It was my husband's.' She said she had balked at the name Lunar Module McGhee, because it didn't sound too good, but apparently they have compromised on just Module. Over.
Roger. Hear a few chuckles coming from that direction. And we do have a late report on the sports here also. The All Star game currently being played. The present score at the end of the fourth inning has the National League leading the American League by 9 to 3. So the hitters are having a good day as you can tell.
And rain clouds are over the MSC area at the moment. It began raining here just about 10 minutes ago, and last report, we were having a pretty heavy deluge. So, that's it from the news front for the afternoon here, Apollo 11. Over.
Thank you very much, Owen. I think my yard could use some water.
That's very true. I've forgotten exactly how many days it did go, Buzz, but something like 30 days without rain. And we can appreciate the rain we're getting right now.
That was Neil. This is Buzz, here. I wonder if we could find out when the last time my lawn was cut. Over.
That might be a little more difficult to find out. I'm not sure whether the - whether Mike is ready to admit when he last did the job, but I'll look into that for you.
Well, he'll tell you. He's got a new mower.
Roger.
Hey, ask my chinch bugs how they're doing?
Well, I'm not sure about yours. I can let you know about my own, and the report isn't very good.
11, Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger. Joan wasn't home right now, Buzz, but Janice reports the grass is getting pretty high, and I would estimate that it's going to be close to your knees by the time you get out of quarantine. Over.
Okay. I'll have to schedule a little discussion after I get back.
Rog. And no reports - no report from the chinch bugs there, Mike.
Well, they're sort of taciturn little fellows. They don't say much, they just chomp away.
Concur on that.
Which is about what we're doing up here.
We concur on that, too.
I'm not used to all this but I'm sitting here right beside...
Breakfast was magnificent as usual. I had sliced peaches, sausage patties, two cups of coffee, and I forget all what else.
That does sound pretty good. As a matter of fact, I'm way overdue for a meal myself, here. I could use some of that.
Why don't you get Milt to give you 5 minutes off and grab a hamburger?
I suggested that a while ago. He was pointing out about the weight problem here. Got to keep the calories low, so I'd better stand by without it.
Houston, Apollo 11. We - We've been doing a little flight planning for Apollo 12 up here.
Roger. Go ahead.
We're trying to calculate how much spaghetti and meatballs we can get on board for Al Bean.
I'm not sure the spacecraft will take that much extra weight. Have you made any estimates?
It'll be close.
11, Houston. The medics at the next console report that the shrew is one animal which can eat six times its own body weight every 24 hours. This may be a satisfactory baseline for your spaghetti calculations on Al Bean. Over.
Okay. Thank you. That's in work.
Houston, Apollo 11. It was slightly colder in here last night than it has been on any previous night. Does EECOM notice any change in his data or any explanation for that?
Roger. Stand by just a moment. We'll go and check some temperatures.
Up until last night it was - if anything, a little on the warm side at night. Last night it was on the chilly side.
Roger there. We'll run down the temperatures for the two nights.
Oh, it's no big thing. Just as a matter of interest.
Roger.
And how'd you like the Command Module RCS temperatures?
11, Houston. They all look very good. The lowest temperature was 40 degrees, and we're taking a look at your cabin temperatures now.
We agree on the CM RCS. No heaters are going to be required by a country mile.
We think that's correct.
We don't like those heaters anyway, working off the direct coils.
Rog.
Peculiar thing, Owen, on the platform alignment, is that when I really take my time and do a very slow, careful, precise job of marking. I'm getting about the same star angle difference as when I'm doing it in PTC and have to do a hurried rush job with relatively poor tracking. Star angle differences seem insensitive. It almost made me believe there's a very small bias there somewhere in the sextant.
Roger, 11. Perhaps the 3-degrees-per-second just isn't that much of a bother. Over.
Well, he's really trying to explain why he can't get all zeros.
Yeah, that's - I think Buzz is probably right. As a matter of fact, one time I made a mark which I thought was a little bit in error, but I thought, 'Well, heck. I'll go ahead and see how it works out anyway,' and I got five zeros that time. And when I have thought everything was exactly precisely on, I have consistently been getting 0.01.
Roger. Apparently it pays to hurry.
I usually do.
The visibility through the telescope has been very poor. It's, I would say, even worse than the simulator is right now. It requires long periods of dark adaptation which most times are most inconvenient. So it's really a tremendous asset to keep the platform powered up at all times and to keep it tweaked within the capability of the sextant field of view.
Understand, Mike.
11, Houston. Checking your temperatures, it does look like the spacecraft may have cooled down perhaps 2 or 3 degrees in the last 24 hours, and that sounds to be consistent with your report on the comfort level there. Over.
Okay.
Is that a LM-off phenomenon?
11, Houston. It looks like we'll have to think a little more about that, as to whether it's a LM-off or some effect of being out of lunar orbit, we don't know. So we'll have to puzzle before we can give a better answer.
Okay.
Well, if the systems guys have anything they want chased down, we'll be happy to give you any readings or reports or what have you.
Roger. We'll think about that and see if there aren't some other tests to be usefully performed there.
Okay.
11, Houston. I'll be turning things over to the Green CapCom at this time, and see you on the ground tomorrow.
Okay, Owen. I want to thank you and the whole Purple/Maroon group there for a good job helping Apollo 11.
Thank you, sir.
Thanks from us to all of you. It was really appreciated.
Great job, you guys.
Roger, out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston. Apollo 11.
11, this is Houston. With reference to your subjective evaluation that it felt cooler inside the spacecraft last night, we reported earlier that we did indeed see a drop of about 3 degrees over the previous night. Looking back, it appears that the crew of Apollo 10 reported similar feelings during the translunar and trans-Earth coast phases. We're wondering if you could give us any indication of the relative amounts of free or condensed water in the cabin last night and the night before, from which we could infer humidity. Over.
Roger. That might be a little bit difficult to do. We'll take a look at the tunnel now. It does seem as though, between the dirt, we've had a little bit more moisture in the tunnel. Of course, the LM hadn't been vented when we did translunar.
Roger. We were more curious about the relative amount of moisture between, say, last night and the night before, both of which would have the LM missing.
There's more moisture in the tunnel now than there has been at any previous time. Subjectively we have been unable to determine any change in - any build-up in humidity. There appears to be no moisture any other place in the spacecraft. For example, the windows are not fogging or - and various other cool spots around the spacecraft - all of them appear to be completely dry.
This is Houston. Roger. Thank you.
How are all the Greens today, Bruce?
Oh, the Greens are in good shape. The actual Green Team has been here for several hours. We're dogging the watch down here to position Ron for entry. Over.
Rog. Understand. Did Dave Reed get to explain the lunar sphere at the press conference?
No, but your comments about Phil Shaffer and the explanations were quoted in the paper last night.
Oh, oh.
Do you want to say anything more while you're on the line?
He's right. He's absolutely right.
How's old Flight, Bruce? Did he ever let you go get a cup of coffee when we were over on the back side?
Oh, things have been going pretty smoothly down here. He's really not that hard to get along with.
Oh, he must be mellowing.
We've only got two of them back here right now.
He always used to make me sit at the console through the back-side passes, just for training.
Well, the word we have here is that that was because whenever you came back, you had to be retrained.
Touché.
Houston, Apollo 11. A matter of curiosity. On our 70-mm cameras, we figure we exposed around 300 in the LM and around a thousand in the Command Module. And both cameras - or all the 70-mm cameras worked just fine.
Okay. Very good. Thank you.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
11, this is Houston. Do you all have 'Change Lima' to your entry operations checklist dated July 23? Over.
The latest - Dated when?
July 23.
I'm not sure that we hung - hung around long enough to pick that one up.
Okay. If you've got the entry operations checklist handy, then I'll pass it up to you. Over.
How can you make changes after lift-off?
You sure you don't mean June?
Negative. It just came up today. Over.
So, you're the first to get to us. Go ahead.
Okay. On page 6-1 of the entry-out checklist down toward the bottom after "Main Deploy pushbutton", we have three additional steps we'd like you to accomplish. The intent of this is to reduce the oxygen pressure in your manifold and to eliminate the oxygen bleed flow through the potable and waste-water tanks during descent. Over.
Okay. We've got 6-1 out. Go ahead.
Okay. Down at the bottom, you've got '10,000 feet Main Parachute Deploy, Main Deploy pushbutton, Push within 1 second.' And after that step, we'd like you insert 'Surge Tank O2 valve, Off. Repress Package valve, Off. And Direct O2 valve, Open.' Do you copy?
Okay. Down at the bottom, after 'Main Deploy pushbutton, Push' - 'Surge Tank O2, Off. Repress Package Valve, Off. Direct O2, On.' Over.
Roger. And then down at the very bottom of page 6-2 where you see 'Direct O2, Off, Verify,' delete that step completely. Over.
Roger.
And for record purposes, this would be 'Change Lima'. Over.
Okay. We've got it. Now how far open do you want the Direct O2 to be opened at this point? And I guess you want it - just leave it open from that point on?
Roger. It should go all the way open, and you can just leave it on from that point on. The intent is to completely depressurize the oxygen manifold. Over.
Roger. Copy.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. For your information, the All Star game has just ended with the National League winning 9 to 3 over American. Over.
Roger. Thank you.
And I have a message here for Mike that says, quote, All the chinch bugs are gone, unquote. Over.
Having done their job, I guess.
Well, along with one tree, it turns out.
Yeah. I heard about that. That was right before the flight.
Right. That big storm.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Are you still up there? Over.
Uh, yes, we are. But not quite so far as we were a while ago.
Roger. We concur. We just wanted to make sure that we still had good comm with you.
Okay.
For general information, 11, you are now 95,970 miles out from the Earth. Over.
Right in our own back yard.
Say again.
Right in our own back yard.
Roger that.
Trying to come down hill a little bit now. What's our velocity?
Your velocity is 5,991 feet per second.
Thank you.
And you are indeed coming downhill.
