Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger, 11. I've got a Flight Plan update for you, to give you an optimum attitude for the Earth in the number 1 window and the Moon in number 5 window. Over.
Ready to copy.
Roger. Your attitude will be roll, 12 degrees; pitch, 270 degrees; yaw, 0 degrees. High Gain Antenna angles: pitch, plus 14; yaw, 263. Over.
Roger. I copy. Roll, 012; pitch, 270; y - yaw is zero. High Gain Antenna; pitch, plus 14 and yaw, 263.
Roger. And when coming out of PTC, you might be advised that your deadband has been collapsed, so to follow the checklist items. Over.
Roger that.
11, this is Houston. We're receiving a black signal from you right now, but we are getting TV. Over.
Goldstone, Comm Tech, Net 1.
Goldstone, Houston. Comm Tech, Net 1.
Goldstone, Comm Tech.
Roger. Check for keying please.
Roger.
Goldstone, Houston. Comm Tech.
Goldstone, Comm Tech. 100 percent keying.
Roger. Thank you.
I'm gonna go to Net 1 now.
Roger.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
From signal strength indications, it appears we may be locked up on a side lobe with the High Gain antenna. We'd like you to go into wide beamwidth for about 15 seconds and then back to narrow. Over.
All right.
You having good S-band signal strength now, Houston?
That's affirmative, 11.
Y'all set for TV?
Roger. We're all set whenever you're ready to send.
Okay.
Okay. You're coming through loud and clear now, 11, with your patch.
Good evening. This is the Commander of Apollo 11. A hundred years ago, Jules Verne wrote a book about a voyage to the Moon. His spaceship, Columbia, took off from Florida and landed in the Pacific Ocean after completing a trip to the Moon. It seems appropriate to us to share with you some of the reflections of the crew as the modern-day Columbia completes its rendezvous with the planet Earth and the same Pacific Ocean tomorrow. First, Mike Collins.
11, this is Houston. We have an LOS here.
We'll be right back with you.
Roger.
In the interim, you may be interested in knowing that Jan and the children, and Pat and the youngsters, and Andy Aldrin are down here in the viewing room watching this evening.
Oh, we're glad to hear that.
Okay, 11. You're back on, with Mike in the middle of the screen there.
Roger. This trip of ours to the Moon may have looked, to you, simple or easy. I'd like to assure you that has not been the case. The Saturn V rocket which put us into orbit is an incredibly complicated piece of machinery, every piece of which worked flawlessly. This computer up above my head has a 38,000-word vocabulary, each word of which has been very carefully chosen to be of the utmost value to us, the crew. This switch which I have in my hand now, has over 300 counterparts in the Command Module alone, this one single switch design. In addition to that, there are myriads of circuit breakers, levers, rods, and other associated controls. The SPS engine, our large rocket engine on the aft end of our Service Module, must have performed flawlessly, or we would have been stranded in lunar orbit. The parachutes up above my head must work perfectly tomorrow or we will plummet into the ocean. We have always had confidence that all this equipment will work, and work properly, and we continue to have confidence that it will do so for the remainder of the flight. All this is possible only through the blood, sweat and tears of a number of people. First, the American workmen who put these pieces of machinery together at the factory. Second, the painstaking work done by the various test teams during the assembly and the re-test after assembly. And finally, the people at the Manned Spacecraft Center, both in management, in mission planning, in flight control, and last but not least, in crew training. This operation is somewhat like the periscope of a submarine. All you see is the three of us, but beneath the surface are thousands and thousands of others, and to all those, I would like to say, thank you very much.
11, this is Houston. We're getting a good picture of Buzz now, but no voice modulation. And would you open up the f-stop on the TV camera? Try 2 - 2, please.
That appears to be a lot better now. We're still not receiving Buzz's audio.
Good evening. I'd like to discuss with you a few of the more symbolic aspects of the flight of our mission, Apollo 11. As we've been discussing the events that have taken place in the past 2 or 3 days here on board our spacecraft, we've come to the conclusion that this has been far more than three men on a voyage to the Moon. More, still, than the efforts of a government and industry team. More, even, than the efforts of one nation. We feel that this stands as a symbol of the insatiable curiosity of all mankind to explore the unknown. Neil's statement the other day upon first setting foot on the surface of the Moon, 'This is a small step for a man, but a great leap for mankind,' I believe sums up these feelings very nicely. We accepted the challenge of going to the Moon; the acceptance of this challenge was inevitable. The relative ease with which we carried out our mission, I believe, is a tribute to the timeliness of that acceptance. Today, I feel we're fully capable of accepting expanded roles in the exploration of space. In retrospect, we have all been particularly pleased with the call signs that we very laboriously chose for our spacecraft, Columbia and Eagle. We've been particularly pleased with the emblem of our flight, depicting the U.S. eagle bringing the universal symbol of peace from the Earth, from the planet Earth to the Moon, that symbol being the olive branch. It was our overall crew choice to deposit a replica of this symbol on the Moon. Personally, in reflecting the events of the past several days, a verse from Psalms comes to mind to me. 'When I consider the heavens, the work of Thy fingers, the moon and the stars which Thou hast ordained, what is man that Thou art mindful of him.'
The responsibility for this flight lies first with - with history and with the giants of science who have preceded this effort. Next to the American people, who have through their will, indicated their desire. Next, to four administrations, and their l - Congresses, for implementing that will. And then, to the agency and industry teams that built our spacecraft, the Saturn, the Columbia, the Eagle, and the little EMU; the space suit and backpack that was our small spacecraft out on the lunar surface. We'd like to give a special thanks to all those Americans who built those spacecraft, who did the construction, design, the tests, and put their - their hearts and all their abilities into those craft. To those people, tonight, we give a special thank you, and to all the other people that are listening and watching tonight, God bless you. Good night from Apollo 11.
11, this is Houston. We're getting a zoom view out the window now.
Apollo 11, signing off.
Houston, Apollo 11. Do you want to crank up PTC again? Do you have some reason to hold this attitude, or what's your pleasure?
You can crank up PTC again, Mike, any time you like. And I might add, I thought that was a mighty fine TV presentation. There's certainly nothing I can add to it from down here.
Thank you.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead.
Okay, 11. I've got a few small items here - one Flight Plan update and some entry photography information, if you're ready to copy. Over.
Go ahead.
Roger. At 180 hours, 50 minutes GET, we should like to delete your oxygen fuel cell purge.
Okay.
And on the entry photography, if you're going to use a fresh magazine of color interior film, we recommend the following exposure settings: f:11 at 1/250th, six frames per second, focus on 7 feet for the fireball; f:2.0, 1/60th of a second, six frames per second, focus on 50 feet when the chutes open. If you're using a magazine, part of which has already been used for interior shots, we recommend f:16 at 1/500th of a second, six frames per second, focus on 7 feet for the fireball; f2.8, 1/60th of a second, six frames per second, focus on 50 feet when the parachutes open. And we would like to know the magazine number that you are intending to use when you have a chance. Over.
Okay. I think we've got those. We will be using a fresh one and it'll be color interior. Over.
Roger. When you get - when you get it out, we'd like to have the number of the magazine, or the letter of the magazine relayed down.
Okay. And we're thinking that we might want to run some of this at 12 frames a second. I don't think we can get everything from 0.5 - 0.05g down. That'll only give us about 7.8 minutes - frames - double that. I guess maybe just an occasional burst to 12 frames would be what we'd want and the rest of it at six. Over.
This is Houston. That plan sounds fine with us, Neil.
Okay.
And lastly, we'd like to know if your stowage configuration for entry is going to conform to the nominal. The Retros down here are anxious to get an accurate c.g. computed for you, and in particular, where the LEVAs are being stowed. Over.
Okay. We think we're going to put the LEVAs and the helmets in the hatch bag, and we'll let you know any other non-standard stowage locations that we complete this evening.
This is Houston. Roger. Out.
Houston, Apollo 11.
Go ahead, 11.
Roger. The magazine we'll be using for entry tomorrow is magazine M. Over.
Roger. Understand. Magazine M as in Mike.
That's right.
Thank you. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Your friendly Green Team going off for the night, and going off for the last time. We wish to bid you a good night and Godspeed.
Thank you. We appreciate all that fine work done by the - by the Green Team, and we'll be thanking you in person when we get back.
Roger. We'll see you on the ground.
Really enjoyed working with all of you. Thanks very much. Over.
Roger.
As usual, all you Greenies.
They're all smiles down here, even the trench.
Houston, Apollo 11.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Roger. How's our thruster firing activity? We're about ready to crank up PTC if you are.
Roger. Go ahead.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
11, we'd like you to shift to an Omni antenna configuration at the present time. We're requesting the S-band antenna Omni switch to Bravo, and the S-band antenna Omni switch to Omni. The High Gain Antenna track in Manual. Pitch, minus 50; yaw, 270. Over.
Roger. I'll do that right now.
Roger. And if Mike has a minute, we'd like to do a little bit of trouble-shooting. It seems he's either flat-chested or something because we've lost respiration rate on the Biomed telemetry. That is, his EPN trace down here is flat.
He was shaving a little bit ago. He might have just let it slip. Hold on a moment.
All the blasted wires are all connected, is all I know.
Okay, Mike. We had a request that you disconnect the yellow connector from the signal conditioner and verify that it looks okay, reconnect it and then, if you would, check the two electrodes that are placed one on each side of your lower rib cage. Over.
I'll bet you there's a smile on Charlesworth's face.
Cliff is not on right now. Gene Kranz just relieved him a few minutes ago.
Roger that.
All those wires and things look normal up here.
Roger, Mike. We could see variations on our traces. You've connected and disconnected, but the medics still don't have a signal.
Looks like you're sending us a message of some sort.
Well, I promise to let you know if I stop breathing.
Apollo 11, Apollo 11, this is Houston broadcasting in the blind. Request Omni Bravo. Request Omni Bravo. Over.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Communication re-established.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Will you confirm you're in Omni Bravo? Over.
Okay. That ought to give it to you.
Roger. Out.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Mike, we're still getting a flat trace on you for the impedance pneumograph. Before you turn in this evening, you might try putting some fresh paste in the sensors, and if that doesn't work, the medics have agreed to forget about it. Over.
Mike's off the loop right now. I'll convey the message.
Okay. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 11. Say again.
Roger, Mike. The trace on your respiration rate is still flat. If you have time this evening before turning in, it was suggested you try putting some fresh paste in the two electrodes that go on the side of your lower rib cage. And if that doesn't work, just give up on it.
(Sound of Train and gunfire.)
Hey, 11, this is Houston. You might tell Buzz not to exercise quite so strenuously. Over.
What's the problem?
Say again.
What's the problem?
Okay. That's one - that's one on us.
11, Houston. Seriously, that comment was just aimed at your musical selection.
Okay.
Come on Neil, not so fast.
We do have an ergometer up here.
What was that? Real time exercise?
Just running the ergometer.
Roger.
Apollo 11, this is Houston. Over.
Go ahead, Houston.
We'd like to know what your plans are as far as turning in this evening. Our - in the Flight Plan, we show you commencing a rest period at about 182 hours, and what are you planning to do on that? We're going to be watching the weather here, and we expect to have an update on the weather, I guess, in about another half hour or 45 minutes, to pass to you. Over.
We're going to probably stick with the Flight Plan pretty much. We are going to - if - check the lights in the northwest corner of the U.S. and southwest corner of Canada. If we can see up that high into the northern hemisphere. Other than that, we'll be on the Flight Plan.
Roger. For your information, the laser from McDonald Observatory in West Texas will be up from about 181 hours and 30 minutes, on for 1 hour. You should be able to spot the Earth out of the number 1 window every time you pass roll 357 degrees and they, of course, are in West Texas. Over.
Okay. Thank you.
How about the number 5 window?
Stand by a minute.
Roger. For the number 5 window. That'll be - every time you pass 230 degrees in roll. Over.
Beautiful. Thank you.
You guys are on your toes down there.
Roger...
You have a new, new star chart. You must have a new, new star chart. Huh?
Oh, we got a fresh, fresh FAO here.
Honeysuckle, Houston Comm Tech. Net 1. Voice check.
Honeysuckle. Read you loud and clear.
Roger. Read you the same.
Houston, Apollo 11. How much longer do you want to keep charging Battery B?
11, this is Houston. Nominally we're looking for about another hour-and-a-half, but what we'd like to do is continue charging until shortly before you turn in for the night. Over.
That'll be fine. Are you going to want to charge A again at all?
Negative, 11.
Okay.
11, this is Houston. At about 180:45, we'll be handing over from Goldstone to Honeysuckle, and I'm handing over to Charlie. See you when you get back. Over.
Okay, Bruce. Good night. Thank you.
Roger. Good night.
Thank you very much, Bruce. It's been a pleasure working with you.
Have a nice trip down.
Houston, Apollo 11. Over.
Apollo 11, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger, Houston. For RETRO, I have the anticipated location of all the entry stowage, and I suggest you pull out the entry checklist, and we'll go through those maps in the front of it.
Apollo 11, Houston. Could you stand by just a few minutes? Charlie and Flight are out getting a weather briefing. They'll be back shortly.
Is this Ken?
Say again?
Is this Owen?
No, this is Chuck Lewis. Charlie Duke is out with Flight getting a weather briefing right now.
Okay. They're out drinking coffee. I know.
They'll be back momentarily.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. Over.
Roger, Houston. Apollo 11. Did you get the word on the entry checklist?
Roger, Mike. We sure did. We're ready to talk about it, if you are. Over.
I think the quickest thing is to go through page by page, the first part of the entry checklist where it has a map. Starting on the page with compartment L2 and L3. Are you with me?
Rog. With you.
Okay. L2 is as shown. L3 is as shown. There is about half the food remaining in L3.
Roger.
Where it says - where it says 'And note', the CMP PGA is located in the L-shaped bag with the other two PGAs. The LM shield was jettisoned with the - Correction, the CMP's helmet shield was jettisoned with the LM, and his helmet and gloves, instead of being in the sleep restraint, are in the hatch bags.
Okay. Let's see now. Your PGA is in the L-shaped bag with the other two PGAs, and your helmet and gloves are in the L-shaped bag instead of the sleep restraint.
The helmet and gloves are in the hatch bag, the great big bag that's underneath the left-hand couch that you put the hatch in.
Rog. I thought I - That's what I copied. Okay. Go ahead.
Okay. The next page is identical except nitpicking point: at R1, we got the entry checklist. Other than that it's identical, and the third page has got some changes.
Go ahead.
In A1 - Are you with me? I'm over there in compartment A1, now.
Go ahead, Mike. Over.
Okay. Compartment A1, the 16-millimeter magazine will be located in window number 4 instead of 5. Tissue dispensers - there's only one of them left. And compartment U3, the 16-millimeter bracket is on window 4, and the PGA bag - add the CMP's PGA, plus add two LCGs. And compartment A8, delete two LCGs, add one PPK, making a total of four; and add 10 pounds of LM miscellaneous equipment. We told you five the other day. We think ten is probably closer. Over.
Copy.
And that's all the changes on that page. Ready for the next page?
Rog. Go ahead, Mike.
On your next page, in compartment B1, we estimate about 15 per cent of that food is remaining. In B2 we took PPK out of there and put trash in it. In B3, the 16-millimeter cable, the 18-millimeter lens, and the right-angle mirror are on window number 4. And that, sir, brings you all up to date.
Roger. How about the LEVAs, Mike? Where did you put those? Over.
They're in the hatch bag.
Roger. Stand by. Our only concern, 11, is with the stuff you got in the hatch bag. That's pretty big bulk between you and A8, and we'd like to talk about moving that over to the sleep restraint. If you'll stand by. I'll verify that. Over.
Okay.
11, Houston. Our recommendation on the gear you got in the helmet bag - correction, the hatch bag - would be to remove that stuff and put it in the sleep restraint under the right couch. The reason is that the hatch bag straps are only configured for zero g, and it's a pretty difficult job getting it lashed down. With the gear in the sleep restraint, it's a pretty standard lash-down procedure, and you can also use the Beta cord that you have on board. You concur? Over.
Yeah. We'll look at it, Charlie, and let you know.
Roger. And I've got a couple of other things, Mike. We need to terminate Battery B charge at this time, and also, the weather is clobbering in at our targeted landing point due to scattered thunderstorms. We don't want to tangle with one of those, so we're going to move you - your aim point up-range. Correction, it'll be down-range, to target for a 1,500-nautical-mile entry, so we can guarantee uplift control. The new coordinates are 13 degrees, 19 minutes North; 169, 10 minutes West. The weather in that area is super. We got 2,000 scattered, 8,000 scattered with 10 miles visibility and 6-foot seas and the Hornet is sitting in great position to get to that targeted position. Over.
Roger.
Apollo 11, Houston. Some of the general last minute updates here. On the entry, we had told you on the camera to set it at 50 feet. It turns out the biggest number on the camera is 25 feet, so just set it at infinity. Over.
Roger. Infinity.
Hello, Apollo 11. Houston. We're ready to put you to bed and say good night, if you give us your crew status report and verify that you changed out the CO2 canister a moment ago. Over.
Stand by.
Okay, Charlie. Crew status report follows. CDR, 11023; CMP, 10025; LMP, 09027. Canister change complete.
Roger. Thank you very much there.
No medication.
Roger. Thank you. Could you give us an onboard readout, please, sir?
Stand by. Okay. Batt C, 37; Pyro Batt A, 37; Batt B, 37. RCS A, 51; B, 63; C, 62; D, 58.
Roger. Copy. Thank you much.
Apollo 11, Houston. It's a good night from the White Team for the last time. We'll be off when you wake up in the morning. It's been a pleasure working with you guys. It was a beautiful show from all three of you. We appreciate it very much, and we'll see you when you get out of the LRL. Over.
Okay, Charlie. Thanks to you and all the White Team for a great job down there all the way through. Thank you.
Outstanding.
Thank you very much, Charlie. Thanks.
Thanks to you guys, too.
And, 11, Houston. Mike, you get your chance at a landing tomorrow. No go-around.
Rog. You're going to let me land closer to Hawaii too, aren't you?
That's right, sir.
11, Houston. We got some word just a moment ago that the McDonald Observatory is - said they had picked up the spacecraft in their telescope. Over.
Outstanding. We have been looking for their laser but haven't had much luck yet.
Roger. We'll pass it on to them, Neil. Thank you.
