The Apollo 16 Flight Journal - Apollo 16 Flight Summary
Journal Home Page
Day 1 Part 1:
Launch and Reaching Earth Orbit
Apollo 16 Flight Summary
By Tim Brandt
INTRODUCTION
At its inception, the Apollo programme was intended to provide the technological basis for a wide ranging exploration of space, including the possibility of supporting a lunar landing. After President Kennedy's decision to land an American on the Moon by the end of the 1960s, Apollo was focussed towards that goal and other missions were put on hold. As the decade progressed, the basic Apollo goal of "landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth" was extended to include a modicum of scientific exploration. A series of missions were designed, designated by the letters A to J. Unmanned tests and early missions made up those designated A to F. G designated the basic ability to land on the Moon and to carry out a limited range of experiments. Apollo 11 was the only G mission,
and was to be followed by H missions of longer duration, intended to be followed by I missions mapping the Moon from lunar
orbit, and J missions providing for longer stays on the surface and more scientific content. Missions up to Apollo 20 and beyond were envisaged. However, cuts in NASA's budget required sweeping changes. After Apollo 11, three H missions were flown, including Apollo 13. The I missions were cancelled. Also cancelled were Apollos 18 to 20, so that the remaining Saturn V launch vehicles could support the Skylab space station. In the event, further budget cuts caused only one Skylab to be launched; the last two Saturn Vs became museum pieces. But the last three missions, Apollos 15 to 17, were redesignated as J missions and were to fly many of the scientific experiments that had originally been planned for the later missions. Uprated Saturn Vs permitted the weight of the Lunar Modules (LMs) to be increased, providing supplies for a longer stay on the surface, and permitting the carriage of a battery-powered Lunar Rover vehicle. The Command and Service Modules (CSM) were also modified to contain the extra consumables needed for longer missions. Most significantly, an unused bay of the Service Module was filled with the Scientific Instrumenation Module (SIM). The SIM bay comprised an extensive set of remote sensing equipment, designed to record the surface, sub-surface and orbital environment of the Moon.
The first J mission was Apollo 15, launched on 26 July 1971.
This was a
triumphant success, clearly demonstrating the level of science that
could be
carried out by a trained crew and an appropriately equipped
spacecraft.
Apollo 15 returned to Earth
on 7 August 1972, with preparations already
well
underway for the next mission. Apollo
16 was due to launch on 17
March 1972. The spacecraft for Apollo
16 were almost identical to
those used on
Apollo 15. Indeed, in
many respects, the mission was intended as
a re-run
of Apollo 15, using the same
experiments and tools to explore a
different part
of the moon. However, it was to prove a significantly more more
challenging mission and was to experience more technical problems than
almost
any
other mission. The final success of Apollo
16 was due almost entirely
to the
skills, knowledge, and experience of both the flight crew and of the
many people
who supported it from the ground. In the history of manned
spaceflight,
Apollo 16 comes only narrowly
behind Apollo 13 and Skylab 2 as an
example of how
a manned space mission can successfully overcome adversity. Right
until the end of the Apollo programme, the spacecraft was capable of
demonstrating new faults and problems, and required a huge level of
support. It was an experimental vehicle, and in fulfilling almost
all of
the mission objectives despite numerous technical challenges, Apollo
16 demonstrated
the maturity and
confidence of
the whole NASA team.
THE CREW
The
crew of Apollo
16 had been selected over a year in advance, on 3 March
1971. The Mission Commander was to be John W. Young, by
then the most
experienced of the astronauts still flying. His experience would
balance
that of the other 2 crew members, who were both rookies. John
Young was
born on September 24, 1930, in San Francisco, California. He
received a
B.S. degree in
aeronautical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology in
1952 and,
after a career flying with the US Navy, was selected for the second
group of
astronauts in 1962. He was pilot of Gemini 3, backup
pilot for Gemini
6, command pilot on Gemini 10, backup command module pilot
for Apollo
7, command module pilot for Apollo 10, and backup commander
for Apollo
13. As a member of the Apollo 16 crew, he became the
ninth
man to
walk on the Moon. Following this mission, he was backup commander for Apollo
17 and flew the Space Shuttle on STS-1 and STS-9.
The Command
Module Pilot was Thomas (Ken) Mattingly II. Ken Mattingly
was born
on March 17, 1936, in Chicago, Illinois. He received a B.S.
degree in
aeronautical
engineering from Auburn University in 1958, and after flying with the
US Air
Force, he was chosen with the fifth group of astronauts in 1966.
Scheduled to be
command module pilot on Apollo 13, he was replaced by his
backup becuse
he had been exposed to measles. After flying on Apollo 16, he
served as
backup commander for Space Shuttle flights STS-2 and STS-3 and was the
commander for STS-4 and STS 51-C.
The Lunar Module
pilot was to be Charles Duke. Charlie Duke was was born on
October 3,
1935, in Charlotte, North Carolina. He received a B.S. degree
from the U.S.
Naval
Academy in 1957, and an M.S. degree in aeronautics and astronautics
from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1964. Like Ken
Mattingley, he was chosen with the
fifth
group of astronauts in 1966. He was backup lunar module pilot on Apollo
13
and Apollo 17 and was the tenth man to walk on the Moon.
After Apollo
16 he retired from NASA.
THE LANDING SITE
The landing site had also been selected; the
Descartes region in the
lunar
highlands. The landing site was closer to the lunar equator than
that of Apollo
15, requiring an orbital inclination of only 9º compared to
the 26º
of the previous mission. The aim was to study the material of the
Moon's
highlands, which was thought to be much older than that of its "seas". Pictures of the
Descartes region taken from Earth and from lunar orbit also showed
features that
were thought to indicate possible volcanoic activity in the past.
THE MISSION PATCH
The mission patch
was selected, as tradition decreed, by the crew
members themselves. According to Charlie Duke, "Each crew
selected their
own
special flight patch. John, Ken and I had several basic ideas we wished
to
incorporate to commemorate our mission: patriotism, teamwork, and the
moon. We
wanted these ideas, plus the mission number and the names of the crew,
to be
displayed on our patch, and talked with a NASA graphic artist who
designed
exactly what we wanted. Basically, the design was a brown and
white eagle
with wings outstretched, perched atop a red, white, and blue American
seal,
over a gray lunar surface background. To show teamwork, the
yellow NASA
wishbone symbol of flight was placed on top of the seal, and then
across the
seal were written the words 'Apollo 16'. Circling a blue and gold
border
were our
names - Young, Mattingly and Duke - and sixteen white stars to
emphasize outer
space and the number of our flight. We were very proud of this
patch,
which to
us symbolized Apollo 16."
Only one other Apollo mission had used
a
shield motif, and that had been Apollo
10 on which John Young was also a
crew
member. The "wishbone" element was actually a stylised wing,
taken from the official NASA seal designed in 1959. According to
a
NASA description of the insignia, "the red chevron is a wing
representing
aeronautics (the latest design in hypersonic wings at the time the logo
was
developed)."
LAUNCH AND FLIGHT TO THE MOON
Apollo
16 was launched from
the Kennedy Space Centre at 12:54 pm Eastern
Standard
Time on 16 April 1972. The launch went smoothly with the crew
experiencing
vibration levels similar to those of previous missions. Both the
first
and second
stages of the Saturn V performed as expected and the spacecraft entered
orbit less than 12 minutes after lift-off. Once in orbit, the
crew acclimatised to
zero-gravity, and readied the spacecraft for Trans-Lunar
Injection.
Despite a busy timetable, Young, Mattingly and Duke had the time to
enjoy the
view and observe thunderstorms and fires in Africa. A number of minor
problems
were
noted during the time in orbit; within minutes the crew had to
check the
settings on the CSM's Environment Control System as telemetry
indicated a
potential leak in the primary coolant loop. While the spacecraft
was
over Australia on its first orbit, other problems developed with the
S-IVB
stage's attitude control modules. First, the Number 2 Module
experienced a
failure of the helium regulator causing gas to vent overboard
continuously.
Then another helium leak was detected in the Number 1 Module. In
a further
fault the
Instrument Unit between the Spacecraft Launcher Adaptor (SLA) and S-IVB
stage leaked
gaseous
nitrogen from a bottle supporting a temperature control system.
As a
result of
these failures, the crew were tasked to prepare to use the Apollo
spacecraft
Reaction Control System to maintain attitude control of the S-IVB
if
required.
After two orbits of the Earth, the S-IVB was fired a second time, to
perform the Trans Lunar Injection burn which placed Apollo
16 on course to the Moon. During this firing, the S-IVB
exhibited
a similar
high-frequency vibration to that which had been noted during the climb
to Earth orbit. The vibration levels increased as the burn
progressed, causing concern that the S-IVB might have to be shut down
prematurely. However, the vibration levels remained within
limits,
and 5 minutes and 24 seconds after the start of the burn, Apollo 16
was travelling at 10.8 kilometres per second towards where the Moon
would be in three days' time. Six
minutes later, the crew separated the
CSM from
the SLA, moved away 15 metres, turned round,
and headed
back to dock with the LM. The docking went
extremely smoothly
and the crew were able to see the effect of the CSM thrusters on the
thin skin of LM. After docking, the crew noted
particles
appearing to vent from a number of points on on the LM; these
later these turned
out to be flakes of the paint which have been applied to reduce the
temperature of
the propellant. Although the flaking paint caused no direct
problem, the
particles
made it harder to use the spacecraft's optical navigation system as the
particles
looked like stars when seen through the optical sight. Once the
LM had been withdrawn
from the
S-IVB,
the stage carried out an evasive maneuver to prevent any risk of
collision with
the spacecraft. Its work finished, the S-IVB was placed on-course
for an impact with the Moon which
would
provide a valuable seismic data. A minor problem during
the the
evasive manoeuvre was the failure of the monitor of the crew's
television camera,
but a good picture
was
still transmitted to Earth.
As a result of concern over the particles coming
from the LM, the crew's first internal inspection was brought
forward to
just over eight hours after launch, rather than at the 55-hour point as
originally
planned.
This visit was short and confirmed that all of the LM systems were in
good
condition with none of the feared leakage of propellant. The crew
paid two
further
visits to the LM during the flight to the Moon, finding few
problems
apart from some small items of build debris that had become dislodged
in
zero
gravity.
During the trans-lunar flight, Young,
Mattingley and Duke carried out
a number of scientific experiments. These included experiments to
confirm
whether
the light flashes seem by astronauts on previous missions were due to
cosmic
rays. The crew also tested a lunar sample
originally
collected on Apollo 12 which
was being returned the Moon to test the
effects of
changes in magnetism. Thirty hours and 39 minutes into the
flight, the crew carried out a
2-second burn
of the spacecraft's main engine, the Service Propulsion System (SPS),
to adjust their trajectory in order to achieve the target lunar
orbit. A second
planned
burn was not required. While Apollo
16 was still 211,000
kilometres
above the Moon the SIM bay door was jettisoned to uncover the
suite of scientific instruments. A significant
sound and
shock was felt by the crew and a considerable amount of debris
was
produced as the SIM bay door tumbled away at a considerable speed .
Just before Apollo 16 entered
lunar orbit, the crew
could see almost half the Moon illuminated by Earthshine; there was
sufficient
light for details of craters and other major features to be visible.
AT THE MOON
At 74 hours and 17 minutes into the mission, on
Wednesday 19th
April, Apollo 16 went behind
the
Moon, losing contact with Houston. Eleven minutes
later the
crew fired the SPS engine for six and a quarter minutes to slow down to
orbital velocity. Once in orbit, the crew admired the view, with
John Young pointing out the features he had seen on his previous lunar
flight. At the end of the second orbit, the crew again fired the
SPS
engine to move spacecraft into an orbit of 20 by 108 kilometres, to
minimise the propellant the LM would have to use to desend to the
surface. In a change from
the flight path used on Apollo 15,
it was intended that the LM's descent engine would be ignited one orbit
early, to allow
a 6-hour longer stay on the surface.
After a good night's rest the crew were up and
busy, shortly before passing behind the Moon on their 9th
orbit. At this point they experienced problems with the boom
that extended the mass
spectrometer out from the SIM bay; this stuck in a partially deployed
position. As a result, Mission Control decided
that Young and Duke would
visually check the boom's deployment after the LM had undocked.
Young and Duke then proceeded to power up the LM in preparation for
thedescent. Because of difficulties that Duke had experienced
with his spacesuit during earlier tests, both Young and Duke entered
the LM
approximately forty
minutes earlier than scheduled. In the event, Duke's
spacesuit did not cause any problems, but Young's did, leading to a
delay of approximately ten minutes. The crew found the
activation
and checkout phase to be busy and were finally ready only ten minutes
early. During the checkout the LM's steerable antenna
jammed in the yaw axis. This could be not be corrected and,
as a
result, Mission Control was unable to automatically update the LM's
computer through the radio up-link; the computer had to be
manually updated by the crew using data read to them from the
ground.
Other anomalies included excessive pressure in one of the LM's two
RCSs. After these two problems and had been
corrected,
Young and Duke undocked the LM from the CSM to a cry
of "we're sailing free". At this point, the two spacecraft
assumed more personal call-signs; the CSM was "Casper", after the friendly ghost
in a popular TV series, while the LM was "Orion", after the
constellation. For the rest of the pass over the front
side
of the Moon, Mattingly prepared to move Casper into a circular orbit,
while Young and Duke prepared Orion
for the descent starting 26 minutes after they next
came
into view around the moon.
At this point, Apollo
16 suffered its most
significant
problem. When both spacecraft came back into view from Houston,
Ken
Mattingly reported a fault with the gimbals that allowed control over
the
direction in
which the SPS was pointing. When one of the two parallel systems
was used to
control
the engine, its electric motors appeared to oscillate. Although
one
of the
control
systems was functioning perfectly, there was no back-up
available.
Correct operation of the SPS would be critical if the LM could not
rendezvous
with the
CSM. If this happened, Ken
Mattingly
would have to use the SPS to rendezvous with the LM. Moreover, before a
landing attempt, the LM
descent engine provided an alternative means of return to Earth but if
the SPS
failed to function later, all three astronauts could be stranded in
lunar orbit. Under the
mission rules, such a fault meant that a lunar landing could
not be
attempted. While Mission Control reviewed the results of
tests
of the SPS gimbal motors, Young and Duke waited, somewhat
impatiently. Mattingly also
moved Casper back into close
formation with Orion by a
"brute force" rendezvous.
At the end of this, the two spacecraft
were approximately 150 metres apart again. By this time, other
problems
had
occurred. The LM's leaking helium regulator had now
pressurised the
propellant tanks to a dangerously high level again. It had been
expected
that
the descent would consume propellant in the tanks, making room for
the excessive gas. To reduce the pressure, the crew fired the
LM's thrusters, even though this was a waste of precious
propellant. Before the two spacecraft passed behind the Moon
again, Houston told the crew that the final decision on
landing
would be made during the next orbit. After extensive discussions
in Houston and
at
the
Rockwell plant in California where the CSM had been built,
Mission Control decided that the system was serviceable enough for the
landing
attempt
to go ahead. All three crew were very much relieved.
Powered descent was now planned to start 5
hours 42
minutes later
than planned, on Orbit 16. However the delays meant that descent
would
now begin from a greater height than any previous mission, 20.1
kilometres, and
4.8 kilometres south of the planned ground track. There would be
less
propellant available for hovering near the surface as the LM would
have to move north during the main breaking phase, consuming extra fuel
and
oxidiser. Meanwhile Mattingly carried out one more SPS burn, to
bring the
Command Module into a circular orbit. Young and Duke were given a
Go for descent about one and a half orbits ahead of time. Because
of the failure of its steerable antenna, and in order to improve
communications with Mission Control, the LM was yawed 20 degrees to the
right to point its omni-directional antenna towards the Earth.
This then gave sufficient signal strength for Mission Control to update
the LM's computer automatically.
The descent of Orion
towards the lunar surface went smoothly, although the fuel level
indication was about two percent lower than the oxidiser indication
throughout. The landing radar lock-on to the surface occurred at
an altitude of approximately 15,000 metres. At 6,000 metres John
Young was able to
crane his head to see features adjacent to the landing site, while
by 4,000 metres he could see the entire landing site. The descent
propulsion system throttle down occurred on time, and at 2200 metres
the
LM pitched forward into its landing attitude. At this point it
became clear that Orion would
land approximately 600 metres north and 400 metres west of its target,
unless corrective action was taken. Using the guidance computer,
John Young redesignated the landing target, effectively telling the
landing computer to offset where it was guiding the spacecraft to
land. Despite this, it became clear that Orion was going to end up slightly
north-west of its intended location. At about 140 metres above
the
Moon, Charlie Duke saw the shadow of the Lunar Module appear on the
surface. As Orion
descended below 60 metres, John Young yawed the spacecraft right,
allowing him to see the shadow also. This then allowed both the
crew to estimate their altitude above the surface and their descent
rate. John Young flew the LM slowly forward as the lunar module
descent rate reduced from eleven to five feet per second. As a LM
descended below 25 metres, small traces of dust were blown across the
surface by the engine. This increased as the LM descended to
surface but John Young was still able to see craters and small boulders
on the surface despite this. Orion
landed at ( time), only 270 metres north and 60 metres west of its
original target. Charlie Duke greeted their success with an
exuberant "Wow! Wild man! Look at that!". John Young was more
laconic - "Well, we don't have to walk far to pick up rocks,
Houston. We're among them!"
Immediately after touch-down, Young and Duke powered-down the LM
to conserve its batteries. They then configured the LM for their
stay on the lunar
surface. Once this was complete, the crew removed their suits,
and ate their first meal on the Moon. Afterwards, they set up the
cabin for sleep, as the delays in orbit had required significant
changes to their plans for exploration. Since there would be few
reserves left if the mission continued for its originally-planned 12
days, Mission Control decided that Apollo
16 would spend one day less in orbit around
the Moon after the surface exploration had been completed. This
would
give some contingency time should further problems arise. It was
also
agreed that the SPS should not be fired more than necessary until the
critical burn to return the crew to Earth. Because of this, a
planned burn to change the orbital plane of the Command Module was
cancelled, although this meant that the mission would no longer be able
to complete the planned surveys of the surface from orbit. It
also
decided to cut the duration of the third Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA)
from seven hours to five, to improve the crew's rest schedule.
On the morning of February 21st April 1972,
John Young stepped down from Orion's
ladder onto the surface of the
Moon, making him the ninth person to do so. The crew were about 144
minutes ahead of the revised schedule as
they began
their first EVA. Charlie Duke and John
Young's first task was to deploy
the Lunar Rover, and put up the US flag. After a photocall, with
John Young smartly saluting while jumping in the low gravity, they then
positioned an ultraviolet camera a short distance from the
Lunar Module. They then had to place the Apollo Lunar Surface
Experiment Package (ALSEP) equipment on the lunar
surface. Unfortunately, while the crew were deploying the heat transfer
experiment , John Young tripped over some of the
wiring that was had been laid out previously. This pulled the
cable free from the experiment, preventing it from
functioning. After investigating, the chagrined astronauts
concluded that
nothing could be done to recover the
experiment, and continued
to lay out the other experiments. After about four hours on the
lunar
surface the two astronauts climbed aboard the Lunar Rover and drove
approximately 1.4 kilometres to a crater planned as the first site for
their geological investigations. They then drove back the Lunar
Module, stopping at another crater en-route. Back at the landing
site, John Young took the Lunar Rover on a
"Grand-Prix" test drive to check its handling and performance, while
Charlie Duke fimed the event. After seven hours lunar surface,
the tired crew
re-entered Orion, and, after
a and
prepared to sleep at the end of their first day on
the Moon.
Meanwhile, while
John Young and Charlie Duke were exploring the surface the Moon,
Ken
Mattingly remained in orbit in the Command Module. He had an extensive
set of
experiments and observations to carry out using the equipment in the
SIM
bay, as well as hand-held cameras. He had also been trained to
sketch
subtle features on the surface that might not be obvious from
photographs alone.
In assessing what he was required to do it must be remembered that at
an average orbital height of approximately 110 kilometeres and a speed
of almost 6000 kilometres per hour, his average viewing
time
for any particular target was only just over one minute. There was
also a
significant conflict between the best spacecraft attitude for visual
observation
of the
Moon's surface, and the required orientation for the some of the SIM
bay instruments to carry out their work. Therefore Ken Mattingly had to
keep
pointing the Command Module in different directions to match a complex
and busy observation
schedule. The scientific instruments also posed their own
challenges, reflecting both their complexity and the rapidity with
which the complex suite of equipment had been developed. The
first time the Panoramic Camera was turned on,
it caused
an indicated under-voltage reading on one of the CSM's electrical
systems, and initiated the spacecraft Master Alarm - an adrenalin
inducing event at any time but especially during solo operations in
lunar orbit. The camera was immediately deactivated, although
subsequent
analysis suggested the problem was caused by the spacecraft's heaters
coming
on
simultaneously with the camera, leading to an excessive power
drain.
The Mass Spectrometer boom did
not
properly retract following its first extension. Although the Mass
Spectrometer was
able to
operate effectively, it stuck near its fully deployed
position
later in the mission and had to be jettisoned. The Mapping Camera
also
did not
function quite as planned and was later found to
have
problems with its glare shield. The Laser-Altimiter, designed to
accurately measure the spacecraft altitude, operated at a reduced
efficiency and finally failed just before its last scheduled operating
period. All of this made for a very busy schedule, while Ken
Mattingly continued to monitor the progress of his colleagues in
exploring Descartes.
On the second day on
the lunar surface, John Young and Charlie Duke again prepared to
explore the surface. Less than 4 hours after waking up, they were back
outside Orion and ready to
start another seven-hour EVA. This time they were to head south towards
Stone Mountain, a peak several kilometers away. After
three-quarters of an hour loading the Rover and checking its systems,
they set off. Over the next seven hours 23 minutes, John Young
and Charlie Duke
carried out an intensive geological investigation of nine different
sites
while covering brackets kilometres). By the time they returned to
the Lunar Module, they were covered in the fine moon-dust.
Although they did their best to clean themselves off, the amount of
dust that was on their equipment and that ended up in the cabin was a
major concern. A considerable amount of dust ended up on their
suits around the helmet neck ring, the emergency oxygen system and on
their portable life-support system backpacks. Most of this dust
then ended up on the
floor of the lunar module. The dusty floors were cleaned by wetting a
rag,
caking the dust into mud, and picking it up with the rag. However,
there
was no way to remove the dust from the Velcro on the floor. The
crew's liquid-cooled under garments, which they wore inside their
spacesuits, also became
covered in dust. By the time they had removed their spacesuits,
the astronauts hands
were filthy and they were covered in dust up to the elbows. In
the event, they could
not clean their hands effectively until they returned to orbit.
The amount of dust gave John Young and Charlie Duke significant concern
in case it
got into equipment and caused either the Lunar Module or their suits to
fail. To add to their problems, they also experienced significant
problems with the orange juice drinks bags that were fitted into the
spacesuits. These leaked copiously. Charlie Duke
ended up with orange juice all over his face and the neck ring of his
helmet, making it almost impossible to remove his helmet . The
crew also experienced significant problems when preparing for EVA as
the tool harnesses and antennae on their suits kept
catching on the fittings in the cabin.
After
a third
night's sleep on the surface, the two astronauts started their third
and last EVA.
Their first stop was four-and-a-half kilometres north, at a point on
the rim of North ray crater, a large formation nearly one kilometre
across. This journey took them thirty five
minutes. On
the edge of North crater they found the largest boulder the Apollo
astronauts had been able to investigate so far. This was a size
of a house, and it soon became known as "House Rock". Further
driving and
exploration eventually brought to crew back to the vicinity of Orion, where
they parked the Rover, and re-entered the Lunar Module with
those experiments which would be returned to the Earth. Although
their time on a lunar surface had been less than planned, John Young
and
Charlie Duke
had broken records for the time spent there, and for the weight of the
samples that they were bringing back. The crew then prepared to return
to orbit.
The ascent stage engine fired as planned and Young and Duke rode the
Ascent Stage to orbit. Orion's
radar locked
onto Casper at a range
exceeding 150 miles, and a near perfect
rendezvous was achieved. At this point both spacecraft again
passed out of sight
from
Houston around the Moon. When they next rounded the Moon, the two
spacecraft
were less than six kilometres apart, but a planned TV broadcast of the
docking operation proved impossible because of the faulty high gain
antenna on the Lunar Module. Young and Duke then inspected Casper's SIM Bay to
see if they could determine why some of the experiment were not
functioning as
planned. Ken Mattingly carried out a similar examination of
Orion,
noticing that the outer thermal blankets on the rear of the Lunar
Module were badly
damaged, and hanging off the
spacecraft. These had been torn loose at engine ignition on the surface
the
Moon, but the thermal blankets underneath appeared to be
intact.
AND RETURN
After a successful
docking with Casper, John
Young
and Charlie Duke then cleaned Orion's
interior
as well as they could, to minimise the amount of dust that would be
transferred into the other spacecraft. This was not fully
effective, and the transfer of equipment and lunar samples ended up
with a
large amount of dust floating around the Command Module
cabin. Attempts to clean this up with the Command Module vacuum
cleaner had to be abandoned after this failed - somewhat incongruously
given that here was ample vacuum outside! In a change to the
planned schedule, Mission
Control now required the crew to sleep before the Lunar Module was
jettisoned. In the event, the hand-written amendments that this
required to the Flight
Plan and to the crew's checklists ended up with these becoming very
messy.
This may have been partly responsible for the likely failure to leave
one of the switches in Orion
in the been correct position when the crew carried out their
final checks. Consequently, when Orion was jettisoned from Casper, it began tumbling and did
not fire its RCS thrusters in preparation for the engine burn to remove
it from orbit. It was nearly a year later that Orion finally
crashed into the lunar surface. An hour later the crew
released a small sub-satellite carried in the SIM Bay. This had been
intended to go into a long-term orbit round the Moon so that it could
be tracked from the Earth. But because of the earlier problems
with the SPS engine, the planned burn to put the CSM into the correct
orbit had been cancelled the sub-satellite could not be placed into the
correct orbit. In the event, the sub-satellite lasted less half
its anticipated life in orbit. Less than five hours later, at the
beginning
of its 65th orbit round the Moon, Ken Mattingly fired the
SPS engine on
Casper to leave lunar orbit
and return to Earth. The
SPS performed perfectly, despite the earlier concerns.
During the long
coast back to Earth, the crew rested from their exertions, and
continued to perform a range of scientific experiments. Ken
Mattingly also had his opportunity to leave the spacecraft, albeit only
briefly, to retrieve the film cassettes from the SIM Bay
experiments. While Charlie Duke watched from the Command Module
hatch, Ken Mattingly used the opportunity to report on the condition of
the SIM Bay equipment and of the Service Module in general.
During his EVA, the crew also carried out an experiment exposing
earthly microbes to direct sunlight in the vacuum. The rest of
the Trans-Earth coast was relatively routine, albeit with its own
ration of technical problems for the crew and Mission Control to
solve.
On
27 April, and with only the 2.7 metre-tall Command Module remaining of
the 111 metre vehicle launched just eleven days before, Apollo 16 re-entered the Earth's
atmosphere at eleven kilometers per second. Less than 14 minutes
later, the spacecraft splashed down to the waiting US Navy recovery
fleet, 350 kilometres south-east of Christmas Island.
Thirty-seven minutes after that, John Young, Charlie Duke and Ken
Mattingly were on the deck of the carrier USS Ticonderoga. Apollo 16 was over as a flight,
although the analysis of its results would continue for years.
Apollo 16
was a further success in the Apollo project, and added very
significantly to scientific understanding of the Moon. It also
demonstrated the ability
of highly trained astronauts to overcome a series of problems, many of
which could have caused the mission to fail. Perhaps the last
word should be left to John Young. "I think that we calculated
once that we worked on about 99 things during the mission that we
either solved in real time or that the ground had to solve.
It was the most of anybody, I think. But we had been trained to
do that. That was what our line of work is."
References:
Apollo 16 Mission Report. MSC07230. NASA, 1972.
Apollo By The Numbers: Richard W. Orloff. NASA, 1996.
The History of Manned Spaceflight: David Baker. Crown, 1981.
On The Moon With Apollo 16: A Guidebook to the Descartes Region.
Gene Simmons. EP-95. NASA, 1972.
Apollo 16: The NASA Mission Reports Volume1. Robert Godwin.
Apogee Books, 2002.
Moonwalker. Charlie and Dotty Duke. Thomas Nelson, 1990.
Apollo Lunar Surface Journal: Apollo 16. Eric M. Jones.
NASA, 2002.
© 2003 Tim Brandt. All rights
reserved.
Last updated: 2025-02-22
Journal Home Page
Day 1 Part 1:
Launch and Reaching Earth Orbit
