Apollo Flight Journal - Index Page
David Woods
with Frank O'Brien, Tim Brandt, Lennie Waugh, Ken MacTaggart, Andrew Vignaux, Ian Roberts, Robin Wheeler, Rob McCray, Mike Jetzer, Alexander Turhanov, Ben Feist, Johannes Kemppanen and William Smeaton
Welcome to the Apollo Flight Journal, the companion to the Apollo Lunar Surface Journal, both hosted at the apollojournals.org website. Like the Surface Journal, it is intended to be a resource for all those interested in the Apollo flights to the Moon, whether in a passing or scholarly capacity.
The journal covers eleven human flights of the Apollo program from Apollo 7 to Apollo 17, concentrating on the parts of the missions not on the lunar surface. As a "living document" it will continue to grow and evolve.
Foreword by David R. Scott, Commander, Apollo 15
Bibliography and Links
Acknowledgements
Journal Preparation
In addition to the mission-specific documentation available on each journal's site, the AFJ includes scanned documents relevant to all missions.
Apollo Documentation
Journal Essays
S-II Insulation - Mike Jetzer
Apollo Lunar Quarantine - Johannes Kemppanen
Ejectable camera pods - Wes Oleszewski
The Apollo On-board Computers - Phill Parker
Lunar Orbit Insertion - Frank O'Brien
Lunar Orbit Rendezvous - Frank O'Brien
The SIM Bay Cameras - Robin Wheeler
Apollo Launch Windows - Robin Wheeler
Clouds Across The Moon - an analysis of Earth photography on Apollo by Paul White
Saturn V: Step-by-Step - Mark Schulman
Correspondence regarding corrections, additions and typographic errors are welcome and should be sent to David Woods at . The most recent updates to the Journal are listed in the updates file.
The corrected transcript, commentary, and other text incorporated in the Apollo Flight Journal is protected by copyright. No portion of the Journal may be reproduced or copied onto any medium (except as required by browsing software) without express permission from the authors. Specifically, the unauthorized creation of personal copies, or of copies for sale is prohibited. Unauthorized commercial use of the Apollo Flight Journal is prohibited; and the commercial use of the name or likeness of any of the astronauts without his express permission is prohibited.
The United States Government retains a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to publish or reproduce the published form of the Apollo Flight Journal, or to allow others to do so, for U.S. Government purposes.
Unless otherwise stated, these files are copyright © 1998-2025. W. David Woods.
Readers of the AFJ may be interested in spin-off books by the editor:
How Apollo Flew to the Moon
From launch to splashdown, How Apollo Flew to the Moon details the entire journey to the moon and back, using examples from all the missions to illustrate the techniques, procedures, triumphs and challenges.
Saturn V - Owners' Workshop Manual
In the style of a well-known and well-loved British car manual, this book gives an insight in the history, development and technology of the rocket that launched humans to the Moon.
Gemini - Owners' Workshop Manual
Gemini was the spacecraft with which NASA learned to fly in space and was the key to the Moon. This manual gives and insight into this precursor to Apollo, and its achievements over tem nammed flights. Co-written with David M. Harland
Lunar Rover - Owners' Workshop Manual
With a foreword by David Scott, the Commander of Apollo 15 and the first person to drive a car on the Moon, this manual gives an insight into the technology, history, development and role of NASA's unique Apollo Lunar Roving Vehicle. Co-written with Christopher Riley and Philip Dolling.
Last updated 2025-11-28
