Apollo 7, Houston through Ascension.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. We're standing by for your PPO2 reading.
Roger. Our PPO2 is reading 18 - oh, about 182 - 180, I guess.
Roger. Copy 182. Apollo 7, Houston. Could you read us out your reading for cabin pressure?
Roger. Cabin pressure is down to 5.2, I'd say - something like that.
Okay. Copy. Thank you.
Apollo 7, Houston through Tananarive. Standing by.
Apollo 7, Houston through Tananarive. Standing by.
Apollo 7, Houston through Carnarvon.
Roger. Loud and clear.
You are loud and clear, also.
Houston, this is Apollo 7. I checked converter 3 on main B is AC bus 2; all phases normal. I checked converter 3 on main A, AC 1; all phases normal. To commence the ECS redundant component check, we need your cooperation for the manifold pressure readout.
Roger. We copy.
If you are ready on the ground, we are going to start checking our main regulator.
Okay. Apollo 7, Houston. We are ready to copy.
Main regulator D valve, Closed. Emergency cabin pressure valve to one. Emergency cabin push-to-test pushbutton, Push. O2 Flow vent, Hi. Can you give us a reading on the manifold pressure?
Roger. 105.
Thank you. Main regulator D valve, Open; main regulator A valve, Closed. Emergency cabin pressure valve to 2. Emergeney cabin push-to-test pushbutton, Push. Okay. It's working. How about a readout on this one?
104.
Roger. 104. Main regulator A valve, Open, Donn.
Roger.
Emergency cabin valve, Closed.
And we intend to our secondary radiators when we get that far on this list.
Roger. Copy.
We went a long period of time here vith tape voice and data phone. I think it would be good if we go over the horizon, and you don't get that thing back into an operating mode; let us know if you can.
Roger.
We're absolutely counting on being able to record this data on the tape.
Okay.
Okay. Apollo 7, Houston.
Go.
Roger. We're not going to be able to finish the dump here over Carnarvon, so you'll still be barber pole to Hawaii. We'll finish the dump at Hawaii then.
Roger. Understand. And in some cases, it would seem that it would be desirable for us to go ahead and hit Command Reset and get that tape moving forward. So in order to avoid any confusion in dumping or in writing all this stuff you haven't dumped, please let us know.
Okay. Will do.
Apollo 7, we're standing by for your Pyro A and B volts checks.
Roger. We've pulled the circuit breaker; it was reading 37 volts before we pulled each one.
Okay. Batt C voltage.
Pyro A, 37; Pyro B, 37; and Pyro A sequence A and Pyro B sequence B circuit breakers are out.
Okay. Batt C voltage.
Batt C's reading 37. Do you read 37?
All right; understand. Inverter phase voltages.
All inverter phase voltages are nominal. I will call nominal at 115 plus or minus 2.
Roger. Copy.
Redundant inverter phase voltages all nominal also.
Okay.
Apollo 7, Houston. One minute LOS Carnarvon, and we have ARIA coverage here for another 10 minutes.
Roger. We are Go here.
ARIA 3, go Remote.
ARIA 3, ARIA 3.
Apollo 7, Houston through ARIA 3.
Apollo 7, through - Houston through ARIA.
Apollo 7, Houston through ARIA. Standing by.
ARIA 3 to.
Apollo 7, Houston through ARIA 3.
Apollo 7, Houston through ARIA 1. Standing by.
ARIA
ARIA 3
Apollo 7, Houston CAPCOM through Hawaii.
Roger. Houston.
We're standing by.
Aloha.
Aloha. Reading you loud and clear.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead, Thomas.
Roger. Reading you loud and clear here. How's everything going?
Very good. We're finishing off our first meal; I've had my first space cup of coffee.
You're eating the breakfast drink?
They can't take it away from me, now.
Roger. Okay. Over the States this time, you're going to get the NAV load, the state vector load, and also the REFSMMAT.
Roger.
Later on, then, we'll call you up a maneuver pad for the 5 dash 4 maneuver, for NAV check, and also for data for that DTO on the day-night retro cheek.
Very good.
Apollo 7, Houston. Forty seconds to LOS. We will have a - about a 3-minute loss of COMM here since the Huntsville lost the voice. We will pick you up over California about 38.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston CapCom through to Huntsville. How do you read?
We can read you S-band. Go ahead.
Okay. Five-by, Walt. We just wanted to make a voice check through Huntsville.
Okay. Jack, if we have made all of these good voice checks, I would like to catch up here a little bit on our food.
Sure.
Apollo 7, Houston. If you will go to uplink to Accept, we will give you - send you the state vector target load and REFSMAT.
Houston, check.
Roger. We got it. Coming up.
Ready to copy the maneuver PAD whenever you have it.
I don't.
I don't have it yet, Walt. Stand by.
Jack, you can tell Chuck Arthur we've got a washer for him.
Say again.
Okay. I understand you have a washer for him.
That's correct. We got some for Huey, Peters, and Cochran.
Okay.
We'll try to give you some more back.
Okay.
You understand they did the tumble test in the Plan?
Roger.
Magazine XXX Frame 50.
Houston, at this time, at 004:44:32, we have shot frame 50 on S0368 magazine M.
Okay.
We had to call those out to you in real time; we can't record right now.
All right.
Houston, for the EMS bias check, add 1.6 feet per second in 5 minutes. Over.
Roger. How many feet per second in 5 minutes, Wally?
six.
Roger. Understand, six.
Negative. Unity six.
Roger. Got it.
That's on the DELTA-V time.
Roger, Wally.
Apollo 7, Houston. All three NAV loads are in and verified. We are ready to pass up your maneuver PAD.
Ready to copy. Go.
Okay. 6 dash 4 008 59 0843 minus 03194 plus all balls plus 03953 1530 minus 0370 04970 32460 minus 086 minus 0300 plus 24 45 3590 332 008 17 all balls minus 2687 minus 03376 1631 180 180 000.
Roger. Do you still read, Houston?
I read you five-by.
Okay. Readback follows: 6 dash 4 008 59 0843 minus 03194 plus five ball plus 03953 1530 minus 0370 04970 32460 minus 086 minus 030 024 45 3590 332 008 17 0000 minus 2687 minus 03776 1631 180 180 000. Over.
Roger. There's a correction on your Noun 43 longitude; that should be minus 03376.
Minus 03376. Roger.
Okay. And I'm ready on your manual retro attitude update.
Send 'em up.
On your remarks, Walt: for your six dash four update there, star check is not visible after 08 plus 40 plus 00.
Roger. 08 40 00 before then.
Roger.
And let me know when you're ready to copy that S 20.9 manuat retro update.
Ready to copy. Go.
Okay. Read the - from top to bottom 6 plus 10, 6 plus 50; roll 179-180, pitch 138-341, yaw 360-359. The first one is a day; second one is a night.
Okay. Now I'll read back right across the top line: 6 plus 10, roll 179, pitch 138, yaw 360 day; second one is 6 plus 50, roll 180, pitch 241, yaw 359, night. Over.
Roger. That's got it.
Apolll 7, the phasing maneuver that we did will put us 82 miles in front tomorrow for the rendezvous.
Roger. I understand. Eighty miles in front tomorrow.
Eighty-two.
Eighty-two miles.
Houston, Apollo 7.
Go ahead.
You've had a report on our constellation Orion already, have you not?
No, I've had no affirmative report.
No strain; it worked well.
Okay. Real fine.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. G&N say we are getting close to gimbal lock.
We have an eyeball on it.
We don't seem to be generating any IVA maneuvers that the spacecraft's responding to.
Roger, Wally. One thing we're interested in: how is Donn doing down in the LEB with respect to working the NAV gear? Do you have any trouble for a position?
At about two GDI's, that's all.
Understand, 13.
The floor doesn't seem to hold me down very well, and it may be because of the strip that's in the hose that keeps carrying me toward the other end; so I'll find out a little better, I think, after I get the suit off later, if I do that.
Okay.
And the PPO2: I gave that to you at 04:40, and it was 165.
Roger. We copied that. What about the PIPA bias check?
We had to stop that when we took your update; we'll start another one shortly.
Okay. Real fine.
Good.
For your information, we have finished one meal.
Copy. One meal.
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni.
Apollo 7, Houston. We are through with the computer; you can go to BLOCK on the UPTEL switch if you'd like.
Roger. BLOCK.
Schirra: We're doing our secondary coolant loop cheek now. *** Schirra:
Okay.
You're about 30 seconds from LOS; we will pick you up over Ascension in about 6 minutes.
Yes, yes, I get it.
Well, we'll have to go up to 270. Is that going to pulse you too much?
Will you pull the handle again? Oh, you're working right there.
Glycol radiator secondary...
To NORMAL.
to NORMAL.
Okay, it's NORMAL, Walt. Anything else down under here? No, I guess not. Okay. Huh?
We can put it back to BYPASS? Oh, I see. Okay, well, okay, it passes the test. See what it does, Walt? Watch. If I put it in AUTO - but if I do it this way, then in AUTO, it's allright. See the deal? You move the switch around STANDBY.
Look at that. Boy!
Where is it? Oh, right here.
Very good.
I have an idea that those damn things are winding us up in yaw. You know it?
What's that, Wally?
The evaporators. They completely move in yaw.
Well, they probably are a little bit then.
Yes. I picked it out once.
Boy, this window is getting smudgy. Look at this one.
Yes, look at the moisture on it.
And it was so good, too. That's gone to pot fast.
Now's the time to take a picture of something like that. That's what we're looking for.
Yes, want to give me the - oh...
Yes.
You what?
Something's gone wrong here.
Yes.
No.
See those lines on it? Can you see it? Way down on the bottom, it's almost terrible. It's bubbly.
Moisture...
We have the - you're recording that? Okay, that's frame 52 and 53 of the centerline window - of the hatch window, that is - at 5 hours 5 minutes on magazine M as in Mike. The center window is picking up quite a bit of visible moisture, and it looks like on the outer pane - the inner surface of the outer pane.
Okay, we've closed the secondary glycol loop, now it's flowing the radiator. Secondary radiator inlet temperature is reading about 72. Secondary radiator outlet temperature is reading 60. I verify that the heaters did come on when I turned the secondary heaters on, and I'm judging now with the high radiator outlet temperature, I turned the - cycled the secondary heaters ON and OFF and had no change of current, so apparently it came ON and was immediately shut OFF by the LOGIC in the secondary radiator loop. When I turned the secondary coolant loop pump to AC 1, in the EVAP mode, the glycol evaporator outlet temperature came down, overshot the control range, went down to about 35, the steam pressure went down to less than 0.1 and came back up in about 50 seconds and stabilized out. The glycol evaporator outlet temperature is about 40 and about 0.12 on the steam pressure.
How long do you have to watch that beauty, Donn?
I'm done for now. Do you want it back?
No, no! Just curious.
Can't understand that.
Yes.
You know that temperature really goes up.
We'll have to do a tenth of a degree per second from zero.
Is that right?
Yes.
Apollo 7, Houston through Ascension. Standing by.
Roger. We're noticing a little bit of fogging on the hatch window.
Roger. Copied.
And we've taken a couple of pictures of it.
What about the other windows?
The other windows are apparently alright.
The hatch is the only one that's...
Yes, they said they...
Okay. Copy that.
We've closed the secondary radiators, and the temperature came down right smartly. We've turned on the secondary coolant loop pump and EVAP, and the glycol EVAP outlet temperature came right on down, overshot to about 35, and seems to be controlling around 40, and the steam pressure is 0.12.
That sounds real good, Walt.
The fogging on the center hatch window is on the inner surface of the outer pane. It looks like a condensation.
Checking condensation.
Yes. Yes.
Hey, Jack, I have one anomalous thing here. When we flowed the secondary loop, the primary RAD OUT temperature is sitting about, well, call it 55, make it 65, and the glycol EVAP outlet temperature climbed right on up to about 58 - something llke that. Makes you wonder about the mixing valve working.
Roger.
We're coming up on a night pass, Donn. That's a P52 IMU realign.
Okay. Walt, I don't know which one it is offhand. Is it on the coolant panel? Is that the one you're talking about?
Well, I don't - there isn't any labeled mixing valve. Which - what would it be?
Gly - primary glycol EVAP TEMP IN?
Well, there isn't anything, it just says...
Apollo 7, Houston. About 40 seconds to LOS Ascension; we'll pick you up in about 18 minutes over Carnarvon.
Roger.
Well, there come some stars.
Well, will you do the stars
Hey!
Come on, come - are you moving?
A little bit.
I'm going to have to get dark adapted here.
What about the?
I did that.
You did?
Man, I sure - I've been looking at a bright light too long. I'm having a hell of a time adjusting...
Better watch it, better watch it!
Wally, I'm going to do something which will torque your ball around. We're going to do a coarse align th_s time. Okay?
You are?
Yes, sir, that's...
You have the ORDEAL there.
Yes.
Yes.
Go ahead.
Okay. Now, that's what you're going to read when we do it. It should be in plane, but it's going to be a different pitch angle. Are you ready?
Yes, I had no idea we were...
GDC is still good where it was.
Yes.
Keep that little devil going.
Okay.
It's going right toward the belly now. It's still 90 degrees.
You bastard, you would! Look at it.
Okay, let's see.
Well, I'm going to have to go hunt.
Are we recording, Walt?
Okay, Schirra had 20 clicks of water, 20 clicks of water from the water gun at 5 hours and 10 minutes.
You didn't!
Oh, crap! Now we can spend the next 263 hours cleaning all that stuff up.
And we didn't even come close.
What do you mean? Was it faking or what?
Yes. It's getting worse.
Boy, we are really moving around, aren't we?
Yes. 10 degrees a second in pitch.
Is that all? Boy!
far behind take that in a basket. We'll pick it up, drop it.
Okay, Alpheratz. What the hell is the other one? Mirfak over there, there you are.
Whoops, can't make that one.
stop your rate.
Never mind, I see what happened. Okay.
I better.
Let's take a night and let's not freak around with this off-nominal.
The nominal is doing fine.
A quarter of that?
If you want to record those, go ahead.
Ha! We missed that. That ain't bad considering how screwed up I was to start with. That thing wasn't anywhere near the right - well, of course, we did get a coarse align, that's why. That's why it wasn't in the sextant. Okay, here are your angles. Jesus! Look at that! Oh, that's right! That was the coarse align. Okay, are you ready?
Yes.
Well, good. We're going to torque about 2½ degrees in yaw now. You always get a big one the first time through on account of the thing, of the coarse align type thing. Okay, I'm going to do it again, alright?
You going to do the whole thing again?
Well, just the fine align part. It will only take a second - It will only take a second, Walt.
Just don't get enamored with each roll we're doing; We're behind, right?
Wait a minute.
We haven't done our P30 DELTA-V yet.
Huh?
Yes, we're not really ahead. We are.
We do?
Use a. It made my whole day. Seriously, we should get...
How about these heaters? They're getting up there.
That's alright.
(Laughter)
Be quiet, 00000.
Look at those numbers. Record those.
Okay. Alright, the first batch was probably more significant, but I think they are on there long enough to get on them. But they were only the coarse align numbers, so it doesn't matter. These are 00000, 00012, 00001, coming up. And getting back.
Okay, should I GDC align with it?
Yes, Wally, you can align with that, that's a good alignment now. settled. That's your 6-4 deorbit REFSMMAT 180, 180 zero roll, minus if we have to.
Okay, Walt, what have you got next on your list there?
Glycol to RADIATOR, secondary to BYPASS.
Okay, glycol secondary - glycol to RADIATOR, secondary to BYPASS, right?
Roger.
You are now bypassed on that little item.
Good, may not have to move it again.
Okay, back to your mixing valve problem. I was wondering about that. This thing seems to be - The primary GLYCOL EVAP INLET TEMP valve is sitting on MIN. It hasn't moved off of there and I don't know...
I think that's called MIN heat. That's okay. That is where it belongs.
That means MIN heat?
Yes.
What's that mean?
It means it is mixing MIN, which is where you want it.
Okay, that is where it is.
Okeedokee. secondary glycol. You know, we are going to use up a bunch of ECS fuel if we have to keep taking out these damn rates all the time.
I know.
We're not going to have as much as we thought, maybe, for certain items. It hasn't really changed, however.
Walt, did you say you had sticky fingers? Oh, you did get one? I was going to say you could get a Kleenex and I'll wet it for you. You can do that. I did that.
Oh, sob, where did the tape go?
Huh? We're going to need it? Okay, we'd better start looking for it. Had it taped to the wall, and it is not there anymore. It'll show up somewhere. The way everything goes up, I expect to find it on the ceiling somewhere. I don't see it up there.
Apollo 7, Houston through Tananarive.
Evaporator.
You want to turn that to OFF? Okay?
Apollo 7, Houston through Tananarive.
Loud and clear.
The CMS DELTA-V test is GO. We have prepared the P52 IMU realignment.
Houston, Apollo 7.
Did we do P30 yet, external DELTA-V?
I'm still maneuvering around here. Here I am. Okay. I'll get my belt down here. That ought to hold it. Okay. 59 and 43, very good. Minus 3924, 00000, 3953. Pretty good size burn.
497 is your counter.
497 is.
Yes. When did that occur? Okay.
490 what?.
497.
Okay, got 497.
Why is this thing taking so long to compute for us?
There she goes. 15, 153, and 33.1. That's pretty close.
With all the number exercise, right?
Huh?
With all the number exercise?
Number exercise, what do you mean?.
Yes, this is what you targeted for if you did the burn.
Yes. did it again. That is just about an hour and a half from now, I guess.
How soon are we supposed to do the retro check?
Okay. It's the latest.
Yes, you want to cycle through for GO/NO-GO.
Theoretically, we are ready for a look at those angles come up there.
I see.
3-1/2 hours from now. We can go up through the region.
Yes, that's all I'm going to do. No, oh, no.
Listen, how far do you want to go with P40? To the gimbal checks?
The gimbal checks? Don't we turn it OFF then?
Yes.
Okay, that verifies that P40 is GO for the burn. That's the way we will have to do it.
Now, if we really do have to do this, we've got to remember to reload the right numbers in P30 because they got those data out again.
Okay, check the DAP.
Guess they did.
Yes.
3246. That's very good. I got - what'd I get here - I got 86 and 30, I got 81 and 33 up, right after lift-off.
I know, I just wondered what these numbers are. I obviously didn't know what they mean.
Well, why would they change after lift-off? We haven't burned that much fuel.
Well, I'll go ahead and load them in, anyway. 2, 4 yes 00024.
That realignment worked out very nicely. I got, I got the damn stupid alarm just like you always do on this freaking pick-a-pair. I went ahead and looked in there and just happened to look out, and the first thing I saw was the square of Pegasus, so I grabbed Alpheratz right off the bat and got that one, and then I tried to get Mirfak but he was out of the field of view, so on the way after Mirfak, I found Navi, so I used it instead.
(Laughter).
And it worked out. And the first time I went through, we got about a half a degree on the first two registers, and 2-1/2 on the third one.
On the.
On the gyro torquing, but that was because we were just on a coarse align. We expected to be a couple of degrees off. But I was a bit surprised at 2-1/2. I thought that was kind of big. So, but the second line came up and it nearly was zero. One of them was 12 000 something I could verify it, and we got a 180, 180 zero on the DSKY for the preferred attitude for the burn in P40. Yes, P40. So I would say that we're in very good shape. I reloaded the DAP for G&C control and four-jet ullage, and MIN DEADBAND half degree rate if you need it.
Only way to be, isn't it?
I was sweating that aliglment a little hit. I looked out there and I didn't see a Goddamned thing for about 30 seconds. You have to get dark adapted or you don't see any stars, and they finally came in. And then after, you know, a couple of minutes, they were loud and clear.
Yes, how about that?
It almost lost my attitude, I might as well stay there.
Are we recording?
I hope. Since I've been saying all this, I hope it gets on the tape (laughter).
The PIPA BIAS is all within limits, too. I wrote it down in the two log books. I don't remember exactly what they were.
Did you log it?
I wrote it, I didn't say it.
Huh?
I'm almost in attitude, I'm going to go for it.
yaw particularly, lots of yaw.
Hey, we're not using any fuel. We got more now than we had awhile ago (laughter). We are slightly (laughter).
God bless, is that a sight there?
Okay, I'll go look for it.
Okay, you haven't been down there yet, anyway. Have a ball.
I think the only thing that is loose down there is the crazy urine hose. I didn't get a chance to...
Did you flush that hose?
Huh?
Did you flush it?
Flush it?
With air.
No, I didn't. I never could get anything to go in it that I know of.
Okay. Well, hold it.
Are we pu_ging through the urine hose? that elbow Well, what's on there? Something is on anyway. No? Okay, the dump is on and the...
Oh, wait. Yes, okay, I get you. That's one. Well, here, let me give you the dingdang to that. Use the elbow and everything will be alright. Hell, I put it hack in there for -. There you go. How do you purge this little - put it - oh_ put the elbow on the end of it. Yes. Why don't you go ahead and do that? I have 1.7 volts which is what it was awhile ago, a good long while ago. Yes.
Okay. Have at it.
Okay, she is going down. Down to 0.6. Still going. It stopped at 0.6.
Apollo 7, Houston through Carnarvon.
Roger, loud and clear.
Roger, loud and clear. 7, when you went over the hill we found your secondary coolant loop was working satisfactory, and everything looked good on the primary loop, also.
Roger. We concur.
Okay.
Roger, we've isolated our secondary radiator again. We should not have to flow it again it again for the rest of the flight. The egress began - ECS redundant component check was completed satisfactorily. I still feel like there's slightly anomalous behavior there on the mixing valve possible on the primary loop. The glycol evap outlet temperature was running at 58 when I turned off the evaporator.
Roger. Copy. Walt, John Aaron is shaking his head.
Roger. We did check the glycol EVAP TEMP end valve on the cooling panel, and it was a MIN heat, so there's not much more that can be done there.
Roger.
Okay.
What's that?
Oh, did it? How did you dump it before?
Oh, I see. You got a parfial hookup.
I never got even a decent partial, I don't think. I might have got a little out of it. I don't know.
Huh? Is it really pulling it out? You can feel it gurgle.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Walt, we just want to talk over on that primary loop. Was the primary loop running when you read the 58 degrees; was it in operation when you read an EVAP OUT of 58 degrees?
When I first read it, it was not pumping, but then it still was at 58 till I turned the evaporator on. There wasn't a great deal of time there between when I turned the pumps back on on the primary loop and went to EVAP, so maybe it just didn't get a chance to settle down.
That might be. Okay.
Your primary loop is working okay now, Walt?
That's affirmative.
It's working very fine since lift-off, I would - I estimate we've been boiling to some extent most of the time.
Ok.
We've run through urine dump operations twice,and it seems to be dumping fine, so far.
Okay. Real fine.
Jack, this is Donn. I completed that alignment at the heginning of this pass. I used Navi and Alpheratz, and we had five balls on the star difference, and I went through to fine align just to be sure. On the coarse align' we had about half a degree and 2 and 1/2 degrees on the gyro torque and angle.
Okay. Copy, Donn.
Do you want to go ahead with the hydrogen purge check heater coming on at 05 50?
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston through Guam.
Roger. Read you loud and clear.
You're five-by.
Apollo 7, Houston. One minute LOS Guam.
Roger.
And, Wally, we're planning - because of - we had this COMM problem during launch; we would like to do a VHF Duplex B check over stateside pass, sometime after yout do the day retro test, and we'll talk you all through it.
Okay.
We'll just do it one time only, and that's it.
Roger.
Put this update list here somehere, would you? I don't have a place for it right now.
Yes.
Use bottom line of window, what's he talking about?
Well, the line is a certain thickness and somebody said just to...
Oh, I see.
just one side or the other, it doesn't - use the bottom side - it doesn't make any difference.
Where's the tape?
I don't know, Walt, I was looking for it a while ago plenty of floods on that one.
Yes. I'll have to get some in a minute.
Where's your garbage?
What are you doing?
Who, me?
Yes.
Looking for the tape. You knocked me off my seat before.
I did what?
Knocked me off my seat.
How did I do that?
You pushed my leg down, backed me up to the wall.
Oh, I did? Your feet react nicely, it's just floating there.
Wally_ What?.
You guys are going to have to, about the next 10 minutes, settle down so I can get this ATTITUDE. It's a precise test, we're carying down to a degree.
Okay, you want to get my feet ready? No.
Did you ever find the tape?
Well, it's a mystery to me. I don't know. The last I saw of it, it was stuck to the front wall here. The next time I looked for it, it was gone.
What's this LOW/HIGH? What's that for?
I haven't any idea what this is for. Are we - well, let's see, we're venting, but that shouldn't accumulator?
Walt, you going underneath there again? I'm dead serious, I've got to pass here! I don't know what you are up to, but I've got a pass here, a control pass.
Wally, I can't help it. I'm just -
Well, I said it and I meant it.
Jesus!
I ask you to -
Would you lock your seat down? That's what is doing it. Can I lock your feet down in the...
Yes, I've got about 5 minutes to get into a fixed attitude, and you're freaking around down there like you...
I'm not freaking around down here! I just drifted into it. I couldn't help it. That's why I asked you...
Now I lost the damn attitude. Aggravating! And shit! It's your trouble I can't get anything done right.
I appreciate that. I'm...
Okay - knock it!
kicking you when you're doing your IMU.
What did you say? You've still got a light?
Apollo 7, Houston through Hawaii.
Roger.
Wally, we'd like to have you do a PO - PPO2 check whenever you get a chance, the reason for this being that the second one was a little shaky.
Do a what? Roger. It was the sa-me as the one before. We were using the elbow that bleeds the cabin down in order to vent the unit line, and we end up not purging the cabin there for a period of about one rev, and now I am reading about 170 mm. I got another little problem here. The O2 flow has gone high about, oh, 3 minutes ago; it's still pegged on high.
Roger. Copy. Copy PPO2 172.
Roger. At 6 hours 7 minutes into the mission, I took the magazine M frames 53 and 54: a tropical storm.
Roger. We copy.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7.
Roger. Walt, we are concerned about that O2 flow high. Have you still got it? And if so are you starting it through the malfunction procedure?
That's affirmative. And I'm on page 52 - about 42 here, the cabin seems to be holding high - I mean holding fine; it's normal. I have switched to REDUNDANT, cycled the accumulator with no effect, and I have cycled several times each water accumulator ON and OFF.
Roger. We copy.
Apollo 7, Houston. Are you calling?.
That's affirm.
Houston, Apollo 7. Go ahead.
Stand by.
34.70 degrees and that was 22 seconds late. That was 06 hours, 10 minutes, 22 seconds.
Okay. Houston, Apollo 7, this is Houston. You're over the Huntsville now, Wally; do you read? The voice data is coming in very garbled. We'll pick you up loud and clear over California in just about a minute.
Houston, Apollo 7. Over.
Roger. ApoLlo 7, Houston. read you five-by.
Roger. That's your trend data shown on cabin pressure? We show it holding. Do you show it increasing at all?
Roger. Apollo 7. We show it holding also, not increasing.
Thank you.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. Your COMM was garbled over the Huntsville, Wally; and you were trying to read down today retro check. Didn't that fix go okay?
Negative.
Roger.
Say, have them call in these times.
Okay.
And all, at 6 hours 10 minutes 22 seconds. Was the bottom of the lines on the canthrim, and was the COAS set at 31.7, also? Matched up perfectly, at 134.7 degrees in pitch.
Okay.
I'd like to revalidate that time.
Okay.
Like to revalidate that time.
Okay. We got that data.
Roger. It is flush from 3 degrees, but we should do better.
Instead of 138.
Say again.
I am sorry, Wally. That was my error.
Roger. What's with the end of eight?
Well, we read you up 138. We are just going through it now, trying to find out what the difference is.
3.3 degrees.
Houston, Apollo 7, Any ideas on the 02 FLOW HI? We are still bleeding the cabin out. It doesn't seem like that could possibly account for that much, but that is the only leak we can account for.
Walt, we are still going through it.
Hight now, we are kind of thinking it is a sensor failure.
We will take a look at it a little bit further as we go along and let you know.
Roger.
Ooo, wow, wow, wow, look at that one line. Look at that DELTA there.
Six hours and 24 minutes into the flight, I took frames 55 and 56 on magazine M looking at several islands in the Ocean.
Roger. Copy.
Yes, okay. Will you give me a NAV program, Donn? It's in the checklist log. We got a lot of shit spread out here.
Yes.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. On the O2 flow problem: we've looked it over pretty well. We can't see anything that would cause high O2 flow. Surge tanks holding well, cabin is not increasing, so we kind of had the feeling it's probably a sensor failure.
And we have some corrections on that mannual retroattitude, the one you are going to do at 6 plus 50.
Roger. Go ahead.
Okay. It is pitch attitude. Pitch attitude should be 339, and yaw attitude should be 000.5.
You are pretty sure of roll by now, huh?
What do you calculate for that first one?
Donn, what are you up to?
Me?
Yes.
Oh, I'm down here in the corner. Why? What you need?
You want to put this up?
Yes. Where are the helmets? Where are the helmets? Oh, I see. You just put it in a temporary bag.
Hey, Walt, here is attitude if you want to leave it.
Yes, I do.
Huh?
No, I had it on the wall, I just thought I'd give it to you in case you wanted it. So what - you want to keep it down here? Yes, you'll need that.
Houston, Apollo 7. We want to go ahead and purge, right now.
I'm still trying to locate that stupid tape.
Really?
I don't know where in the hell that got to.
I guess it...
Well, I had it on the wall, Wally, and it just got...
Got knocked off?
Well, I don't know. Apparently sticking things to the wall isn't all it's cracked up to be, because as soon as you bump - No, I thought that tape, you know, and as sticky as it was, and I had a pretty good chunk of it pasted on there. It got loose somehow and -
Oh, oh, oh, oh (moan).
Are you flying?
Yes. I got a piece of shit right in it.
Where are you going now? Do you need.
Not yet, Walt, I'm looking for tape yet.
Oh, I am going to be grabbing hold of a couch now.
Let's put the couch down.
Well, I was thinking, when we get close to your attitude - you kind of snuck it in - why, I'll have to be quiet. Or if you want, I'll be quiet right now, but...
No, I'm opening -
What I was doing before, apparently, was bumping into your seat pan...
Yes.
which-in turn was bending your legs around then move up. It's screwing you up. It's locked on there, it shouldn't be doing that.
Walt, I'll see if I can get - get at it photography.
Okay, let's see if I can get you a 121 magazine here.
Here is a 121.
There's the tape. All the time and there it's hanging underneath your helmet...
Walt, I put it...
Just sitting there, staring at me (laughter).
Can you reach it, or do you want me to go get it? I'll have to put the seat down if I go.
I think if you just roll over to your right side. Can you see it?
Uh-huh.
Hey, did you get that tape, Walt? You got it now?
Yes. No, it's on this side. You'd better grab it.
I'd like to. Where is it?
No, it isn't. Just goes on a complete tour Of the spacecraft. Oh, you are going to use it.
(Sneeze).
Okay. (Laughter) Stay away from Wally's couch. Man, if I let go of anything, I'll just float right over there into it. I don't know what the hell it is.
Maybe you're just too lazy.
Say, Walt, what are you doing, just floating around?
Yes. Last night. Yes.
You can really hear those thrusters, can't you?
What's that? Oh, he asked you if you got your preselected food. Makes pretty good soup.
Yes, I've got it, Walt.
You do?
Yes, I'll watch it like a hawk from now on.
Okay. I do too. I got here 23 - 33.58.
You need the DSKY on that now, Wally?
Yes, I guess so. The number won't be much longer.
Okay.
How soon do you need it?
I don't particularly - I just haven't checked a computer problem which we're using in a few more seconds.
Yes, alright.
Move over that way a little.
Apollo 7, Houston through Ascension.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. Wally, we're still showing a good cabin and everything seems to be holding fine in the ECS there.
We concur.
About 1 minute LOS Ascension; we'll pick you up at Tananarive.
Roger.
Yes.
9, 9, 9,
What?
Why, what are you getting?
Yes.
Houston, Apollo 7. Over.
Apollo 7. Go ahead.
Jack, how about an orbital map update first chance you get?
Apollo, would yon repeat? You're garbled.
Requesting an orbital map update first chance you get, over.
Roger. Will do.
Huh?
Did you cheek the horizon?
Well, let's see.
What? No. see through the window.
There's no rea].
What are you in, Wally, pulse or -
RCS active hold?
Really? Are we in deadband?
No, I've got to get this stuff done, Donn.
I asked for a window update. What am I doing?
Well, nothing.
S-band...
Yes.
Did you get the reading?
Yes, I think the computer is a little bit off. Somehow it had the wrong attitude in there.
Houston, Apollo 7.
You want the report, Walt?
Okay, on the manual retro attitude check for night. Roll, 186329; yaw, 0; pitch out at 504
Apollo 7, Houston through Tananarive.
Houston, do you read? Apollo 7.
I read you five-by. How me?
Read you the same. Check we are right on Earth limb. The airglow is 2.8 degrees thick during that check. The COAS is a better -
Apollo 7, Houston. You faded on that last one, after the comment about the COAS.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7.
Apollo 7, Houston. We read you five-by, now.
Roger. I assume you are monitoring my purge and -
Roger. I understand you're making a fuel cell purge.
Roger. Check it out.
I didn't get it, Walt; say again.
I'm in the midst of a fuel cell purge. I've done one on hydrogen fuel cell 2, and fuel cell 3 to follow.
Roger. Copy. I can give you some - an update on your orbital map here.
Roger. Standing by; go ahead.
Okay. For REV 5, the node - the time of the node will be 07 plus 17 plus 38. Longitude of the node will be 106.5 degrees ernst.
Roger. 106.5 east, 07 plus 17 plus 38.
Roger. And the right ascension will be 06 plus 49.
Say again.
The right ascension will be 06 plus 49.
06 plus 49.
Okay. And, 7 - Wally, you faded out on when you were describing the night retro check; we didn't get your comments on the COAS.
Roger. I set the COAS for 31.7 degrees. It was more readily usable than the window align for that retro.
Okay. Roger. Okay. Real good. Mas the basic data correlated pretty well for the night retro, Wally?
That's affirmative. It looked real good on the earth horizon.
Okay. That's what they're shooting for. We'll talk to you over Guam about the day retro check and the discrepancy there.
Roger.
And, Apollo 7, we plan to do that Duplex V cheek just as we start Guam there.
Roger.
Apollo 7. You are 1 minute LOS Tananarive;pick you up in Mercury in about 18 minutes.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston through the Mercury. How do you read?
Roger. Read you loud and clear.
Roger, Wally. You're five-by. How's the spacecraft systems status?
We are in pretty good shape. We detected a continual yaw which we suspected before we started to fly. I'll give you some data on that. The control mode is SCS attitude HOLD, MAX deadband, high rate, limit cycle is ON.
At 7 hours 17 minutes and 3 seconds, yaw was plus 007.10. At 17 hours 18 minutes and 56 seconds, yaw was plus 007.82, and it cycles back and forth between those kind of numbers at that rate.
Okay. We copy.
We are knocking on the plus yaw side of the deadband.
Roger.
The other systems are GO with the exceptiom of the - well, we seem to have the O2 full high come off the peg.
How so?
Must have been a stuck valve.
Did you use the BARDOL procedure?
We used BARDOL procedures, but that was like an hour ago.
Roger.
And water accumulator auto 1: the flowmeter looks sluggish, and it's reading about.75 - make mhat about.8. The light is out.
It is decreasing; it must be a winner.
Roger. Do you have any other system problems?
Donn solved his urine dump system problem.
Roger. Copy.
That sounds like a personal problem.
Yes, it was.
Does the spacecraft look good for about 18 revs?
Eighteen revs a day.
Okay.
We're ready to move to fast time right nOW.
How about going back to MSOB and starting over tomorrow?
Apollo 7, Houston. You are GO for 18 dash 1.
That suits us.
Real fine. Tom has got a question here for you.
Go ahead.
Okay. Wally, just want to hack out real fast on that one retro cheek. The night retro check came out real good, and the retro wants - John wants to ask you one question here. On a daylight check, when you came up to the 6 hours and 10 mimfces, you read 134.7 at that time?
That is affirmative. We were 20 seconds late with the cheek because it was so far off, and I was trying to bring it in.
Okay. Well, we do have some NAV vectors. They can account for a 1.4 difference, and it looks like what they would like to do is - down the road sometime is run another one.
Okay. Let us do a little more homework on it, and we'll use the fuel.
Okay.
Those are kind of expensive.
Say again, Wally.
Those are kind of expensive to use as fuel.
Yes, we agree completely and said the night check came out good, and - well, they can account for half of that difference due to a vector.
Apollo 7. Opposite omni.
Apollo 7, Houston, We would like to shift over to Duplex B for a radio check.
Okay. Opposite omni on S-band first.
Apollo 7 on Duplex B. How do you read? Over.
Okay. Stand by until we can get reconfigured with the site here, Walt.
I'm already switched. How are you - oh, you're reading me S-band?
Okay. We're real good. We read you Duplex B real fine.
Roger. I'm reading you five-by-five. Do you read me Duplex B?
Five-by. Stand by one.
Okay. Apollo 7, you can go hack Simplex A. The voice check was real good.
Apollo 7. Simplex A. How do you read?
You're five-by.
Likewise here.
We got our O2 FLOW HI back.
Roger. We see it. And you've got 1 minute LOS Guam; pick you up on Hawaii in about 8 minutes.
Roger. And we had a successful purge, both hydrogen and oxygen, all three fuel cells. Looking ahead, I see vent batteries at 8 hours. We did that as part of our postinsertion checklist.
Roger. Copy.
The systems test meter position 4A went down to.60. That's as low as it went on the vent.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Okay. Through Hawaii now. One thing GNC wanted to check on: they got a bit on TM that showed you had a restart- Have you had any RESTART lights on your computer?
This is 7. That was in a routine we've done. We did zero optics, and we found from zero optics - we thought everything was okay, which would be capable because of the low rate in the lighting.
Okay. You're kinda garbied. I understand you did have one to reset and looks like all the erssable is real fine.
Hello, Apollo 7, Houstoun.
Roger, Tom. Go. ahead.
Okay. Got good COMM with you now, Wally. Just wanted to recheck on the computer. When you did - did you get the alarm light at the same time that the RESTART - program alarm at the same time that the RESTART came on?
That's affirmative. We've wrote that off as no problem, Tom.
Okay. But you did get a RESTART and a program alarm about the same time?
That's affirmative. Thet was due to the zero optics. The gage swung too fast.
Okay. One item I want to - we're starting to track the S-IVB, and it's not separating as fast as they had anticipated. It's going to take a while to track it out, and then we'll have plenty of time on it.
Okay.
I wish to hell I could the next SM RCS.
Hey, listen, I want to tell you 076 you know Wally.
About all there is to do is power up.
This may go away.
Hey, it might not be that lock on.
Well, I'll tell you what I ended up doing is laying the neck ring folded, then purge, and then just holding the right wing after purge in about 6 or 8 seconds.
How's the cabin pressure?
25 squirts of water at 8 hours, 10 minutes.
12 minutes, 46 seconds - 8 hours we got about six or eight things minutes until.
Wally.
(Laughter)
Hey, Wal]y the simulator must be in roll.
Walt, when you put the Flight Plan over there.
Yes, Wally.
What did you say, Walt? Okay, that was really what I was worried about, t was getting a flashlight out of there.
Don Don Don Dee, Don Dee Dee.
Is that you talking, Walt?
Wally.
Yes, I think I will too. I could use it.
(Laughter)
Hey, Wally, I think I see the piece of tape you attached to the wall up there.
Apollo 7, Houston through Tananarive.
Roger, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger, we are just standing by here. One item of interest, the hydrogen and oxygen purity is lots higher than predicted. It looks like the next purge that will be required will be some time after 40 hours.
Boy!
Roger, we'll stand by for your update, and since confession is good for the soul, one of those hydrogen purges ran a little better than 3 minutes last time.
No problem.
I'll just put it right here for the time being and.
Okay.
This is the LMP. I want to log 20 squirts on the water gun at 8 minutes - 8 hours and 35 minutes into the flight.
Apollo 7, Houston. Roger, we copy.
We are using you for real-time logging whenever we have our DSM out of commission temporarily.
This is really pretty nifty when you get out of these crazy suits.
Okay.
No, I didn't, because at the time you weren't hooked up.
yes.
Did you do it?
I'll tell you what, I'm just trying to hold you a place to the wall.
you got velocity?
Yes.
Okay, let's get those.
Yes, I guess so.
Houston, this is Apollo 7. Do you have the good team on yet?
Apollo 7. Say again.
Sounds like you've got the good team working there.
Yes. That's affirmed.
What?
Hope you had nice trip back to Houston.
We had a beautiful trip. I tried to contact you, but no go.
Understand;
(Laughter)
Apollo 7, Houston. We have 1 minute to LOS Tananarive.
Roger.
Roger.
Put this in your pocket if you want it. You don't want it? Okay.
Yes, Wally.
Hey, Walt.
What's that?
over there.
I'll get those things out, Wally.
Huh?
Yes, I will.
Really?
It isn't here. That's odd.
What did you do with that, Wally?
I've got the other two on, Walt, so they're -
You're what?
Are you sure you didn't bring somebody along?
What?
Are you sure you didn't bring somebody along? (Laughter)
(Laughter) It must be still in there.
Voice control, Tananarive.
Huh?
I'm beginning to like that. I've put it on about four times (laughter).
Well, hell. We've got most of it in anyway.
Boy better get the top of it.
Do you want to?
you're welcome to it.
(laughter).
You have already got the other side.
No, I don't think you can put any in it.
No.
I just put mine around back.
Hey, it's got little daisies on it. Isn't that cute?
No trouble you made it this way.
You may need your imagination a little bit.
Say, I wonder how this stuff is going to feel. That's what I was wondering, whether I ought to get the Beta without putting on this a jacket off that Teflon.
Alright?
Apollo 7, Houston through Mercury. How do you read?
Apollo 7, Houston through Mercury.
Roger, Houston. Go ahead.
Roger. You're coming in loud and clear. Just wanted to check - have you got all the basic stowage squared away, Walt?
Seams like we have. We're up to that stage in the Flight Plan here where we kind of collect our housekeeping wits. Donn is attempting to settle down for a long winter's night.
Okay. Thank you.
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni.
Roger. I switched, but I showed a better lock-up on omni A which I had before. It's back up now. I still have the O2 FLOW HI light. We've occasionally had the flowmeter come on down to around.8, but it's a very sluggish movement. I would appreciate it if, as soon as you get any kind of trend data on the option quantity, you'll let us know, and it'll really confirm the transducer problem.
Houston, this is 7. Over.
Houston. Go.
We have block data on board up through REV 8, and we'll be standing for further update on block data at your convenience.
Houston. Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. Let's try opposite omni again.
This one looks a little better to me, but not too good. I'm going to try in between if you'd like. I can kind of tell here on the single straight meter. That's negative. Omni A seems to be best from here.
Roger. Thirty seconds to LOS and okay for Omni A.
Apollo 7, Houston at Hawaii. Over.
Roger. Reading you five-by.
Roger. Good news tonight. There's no EKG on a CMP or the LMP.
Thank you very much (laughter). I'll tell the CDR.
Since the CMP is asleep, don't bother him; but we've got some checks we want the LMP to do.
TPis is the LMP. Go on the checks.
Roger. Check that the sensor that goes into the lower end of your breast bone - there right in your chest - is plugged in the line. Check that the sensor - the external sensor - is plugged into the box and is tight. And then when you're done with all that, if it doesn't make up, check that the sensor is strapped to the body. And -
I found one sensor that was loose, It was the upper one - the upper sternum.
Roger.
How are you reading me now?
Loud and clear.
How's my EKG, I mean?
Nothing yet.
That's it.
That fixed it, LMP.
Sorry about that.
Opposite omni, please.
Apollo 7, Houston. I have a block data on number 2 to give you.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go.
Roger. Both the last two stations confirm that you have been transmitting on both Simplex A and B. Do you concur?
That's affirm. We're now on Simplex A.
Roger. We're about 1 minute to LOS. I'll have your block data for you over Tananarive if the voice is good; otherwise, on around.
Roger. We'll be standing by.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston. One minute to LOS. In the blind, up-telemetry command switch to RESET and release.
Roger. Are you reading the S-band as coming real low, and say again all after LOS?
Roger. Up-telemetry command switch to RESET.
Apollo 7, Houston. Return the up-telemetry command switch to NORMAL.
You're coming in way down in the mud. Do you want the up-telemetry?
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. You sound pretty good this time.
Roger. We're changing our canister at this time.
Roger.
Houston, this is Apollo 7 again. Well, about 25 minutes ago, I guess, we noticed our glycol evap outlet temperature was climbing above 50, and the steam pressure was pegged low. The best above 60; we went to MANUAL and increased for 45 seconds, and we started to activate the secondary loop. Before we got the secondary loop completely activated, in about 10 minutes, the temperature started down again, and there was no noticed activity for a couple of minutes; but it looks like the water boiler valve just might have frozen, and now it seems to be controlling fine back in AUTO.
Apollo 7, Houston. We copy.
Roger. And I am in the midst of changing the lithium hydroxide canister. Would you verify it for me from the ECS people how long this button should have to be depressed preventing the canister prior to opening? It seems to be on a continual.
Roger. Stand by.
You don't even need to press a button there, Walt.
Apollo 7, Houston. That's just a momentary depress on that canister.
Roger. That's what I understood, but I think it must he for operation; it works all right now.
Walt, we would like to verify that you reset your up-telemstry command switch and then it went back to normal.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. Request a partial pressure O2 reading.
Stand by.
19...
Houston, this is Apollo 7. We took and changed the canister out of the A side board on the ground that we had inadvertantly placed canister 2 in there. I switched canister 2 down to site B and removed canister 1, and canister 2 is now where it belonged in the first place.
Apollo 7, Houston. That's Roger.
Houston, the cabin reads 190.
Apollo 7, Houston through Mercury.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. We need your partial pressure O2 reading Wally, and also your status of the waste management overboard drain valve.
Roger. You got the reading on the partial which reads 190 when you requested it - at about 10:15.
Say again the reading; I missed it.
One nine zero.
Roger. Cleared to go ahead and close the waste management overboard drain valve. the one you...
Do what to it?
Close it.
Thank you.
The one you already closed at 10:15.
Negative.
Apollo 7, Houston. I've got some block data to give you.
Send it up.
Roger, Block data number 2: 009.3 Bravo plus 254 plus 1367 013 plus 29 plus 36 5150, 010 Alpha Charlie minus 054 minus 0162 014 plus 19 plus 12 4314, 011 Alpha Charlie plus 060 minus 0220 015 plus 54 plus 48 4131, 012 Alpha Charlie plus 134 minus 0330 017 plus 28 plus 48 4098, 0132 Alpha plus 262 minus 0282 019 plus 08, plus 06 4258, 0141 Bravo plus 220 minus 0620 020 plus 34 plus 03 4163. Houston. Over.
Roger. Resdback: 0093 Bravo plus 254 plus 1367 013 plus 29 plus 36 5150, 010 Alpha Charlie minus 054 minus 0162 014 plus 19 plus 12 4314, 011 Alpha Charlie plus 060 minus 0220 015 54 48 4131, 012 Alpha Charlie plus 134 minus 0330 017 28 48 4098, 0132 Alpha plus 262 minus 0282 019 08 06 4258, 0141 Bravo plus 220 minus 0620 020 34 03 4163. Over.
Roger, Wally. Readback is correct. Break. When we get over Hawaii, we are going to want to make an E memory dump by a Verb 74. And essentially, you'll be starting out with a clear DSKY, a Verb 74 enter, and then wait 1 minute.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 7. I would like to log at 10 plus 35. I had 11 squirts on this water pistol, and I'd like to log that the beef stew bites tend to be Very crumbly and a lot of crumbs when you open the package even. Pretty crumby food.
Copy the crumbly food.
Houston, as long as we're logging water in squirts, 17 squirts for CDR at 10 hours...
Houston, Apollo 7. Do you copy?
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. Wally, at this time we would lik'e to try Duplex A, and please notify when switching to Duplex A.
On your MARK.
Roger. Duplex A.
Now.
Nouston, Apollo 7. How do you read Duplex.A?
Apollo 7, Houston. It's a little more garbled than the other, but still about four-by-five.
Roger. You sound exactly the same.
Roger. Let me cheek to make sure we're receiving downlink and that we can proceed with our Verb 74.
Roger. Do you want me to remain duplex A?
That's affirmative. We will stay Duplex A until get close to LOS, and if we happen to miss it, return to Simplex A at LOS.
Wilco. And, for the dump I will do a ENABLE right?
That's a negative. You want to make sure the DSKY is clear, and it looks like it is. Enter Verb 74 and enter, and then we will wait 1 minute.
Stending by on your MARK.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Proceed, Verb 74.
Houston, we're standing by.
Roger. Enter it, babe.
Wally, you can go ahead and make the entry from on board. We're not going to send it to you.
Apollo 7, Houston. Request you enter Verb 74.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. Request you enter a Verb 74.
Yes.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. It looks like the E memory dump was good. We would like to verify the position of the water flow valve on panel 2 is in the AUTO position. That's the glycol evaporator water flow.
Houston. That's affirmative. The is AUTO; the feed pressure is AUTO. The water flow is AUTO.
Houston. Roger.
And it seems we just got the same thing again. Pressure.
Apollo 7, Houston. Return to Simplex A and about I minute to LOS.
Roger. Simplex A.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7. Do you read?
Apollo 7, Houston. Affirmative. Read you.
Roger. I'm reading you very weak. It seems we've been running into a lot of passes here where between passes we're left without a tape recorder running, and we don't quite know the status of it when we're left that way. We would like to be using it to record some of these problems. I assume you're observing the anomaly we've got in our steam pressure now. I'm going to reservice the water boiler.
Roger. I understand. You're servicing the water boiler.
Houston, Apollo 7. Let's get those guys in the backroom to keep track of the tape recorder for us, please.
Okay, at 11 - at 11 hours and 10 minutes into the flight, CDR logged 25 clicks on the water gun.
At about 11:15 LMP took clicks on the water gun.
And we've chlorinated the potable water at 11 hours 30 minutes into the flight. The potable water quantity is reading about 87 percent.
11 hours and 58 minutes into the flight, and frame 4.
Apollo 7, Houston. AOS via Mercury.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 7. We temporarily had our primary loop back working on the line. It is beginning to look like the primary water flow valve. For a while, we thought it was stuck shut. However, I was able to, by playing with it, eventually get it to come back up with steam pressure reading normal for awhile. It's holding around a temperature of about 43. Right now, it's pegged low again. It looks like it's possibly the water control section of the 240 controller.
Walt, say again there the last sentence there. It looks like what?
I believe it's probably getting down to the water control section of the 240 controller. Also, we had a DTO to accomplish here, the CRYO stratification for hydrogen. It's - both tanks are over 90, plus or minus 5, percent on the hydrogen, and the procedure calls to let the pressure rise to about 260 to 265, and I believe that's the spec number, and I'd like EECOM to tell me how high these pressures have been rising before they - the heaters shut off so I'll know where to start doing the DTO. Over.
Roger. Stand by, we'll get it for you.
More specifically, Ron, I need the DEADBAND that the hydrogen pressure tank 1 and tank 2 have been running back and forth between.
Roger.
Tell Wally we just took a couple more pictures of his mountains to update them,
Roger.
And we have been throwing data on that tape, and I hope we can get something workedout on that - the tape dumps - because we're terribly handicapped if we don't have the tape available to log on.
Roger. Me concur, and I think we're back in cycle now on the thing.
Okay. Understand. It would be nice if you know that we are going to be going over the horizon without the tape in a RECORD mode for us. Let us know.
Roger. What it amounts to on these night passes or nighttime here, is that we're down to just about one site per rev to dump it, and the Mercury S-band is down right now.
Roger.
We only have two stars available for the 252 alignment.
Roger. We will have it shortly.
Air frame 6 and msgazine Bravo. Correction, magazine Peter.
I missed that, Wally. Say again.
Roger. I would estimate that he is a coonie.
Ah so.
Ron, do you have someone working with two stars?
Wait one - I think - P52. Don't we just pick a pair out of the CMC?
Roger. We will go ahead like that.
Roger.
Anybody come up with any suggestions on our ECS problem? The malfunction procedures call for activating the secondary loop whenever the primary radiator outlet temperature gets above 48. I have been resisting doing that and kind of going by the glycol EVAP TEMP. Right now, I am reading almost - radiator outlet temperature now that my glycol evap outlet TEMP is on about 52.
I would like to hold to not activating the secondary loop until the pimary, glycol evaporator outlet TEMP would hit 60.
Apollo 7, Houston. We concur on that. We kind of believe that we're really - not really hot enough, and then we're starting to cool down when it starts evaporating - maybe overshootingn going too cold on that thing. We're working on that right now.
Okay. During the night pass, the glycol evaporator outlet temperature got down as low as about 45 - something like that - before we got the evaporator working again.
Roger.
Do we have anybody who can sending us extreme data on what the hydrogen pressure should cycle between?.
7, Houston. LOS.
The potable water was chlorinated around 11:30 with a chlorine ampule and a buffer ampule.
It's about 12:18:30. It's 12:18:30 into the flight and.
Apollo 7, Houston. I have your deadbands for H2 1 and H2 2 tanks.
Roger. Go.
Roger. Tank 1 - H2 tank 1 - 228 to 246, H2 tank 2 237 and 255.
Roger. 228 to 246 and 237 to 255, and I see that's what the pressures have been cycling back and forth in the neighborhood of these readings?
That's affirmative in the R/O autoheaters and you can tell Wally that it looks like stars 11 and 12 would probably be pretty good stars to try for.
Roger. Eleven and twelve, thank you.
And we will accomplish the zero-g test after the alignment. We're still showing on about 87 percent. Showing about 87 percent.
Apollo 7.
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni.
Apollo 7, Houston. Let's try the original omni again.
Apollo 7, Houston. I've got some hot dope on the S-IVB.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston. Go ahead and try in the blind. I understand you're reading us weak. We do not read you. We're monitoring the relative motion of the S-IVB and the spacecraft. It looks like it may require another phasing burn at about 16 to 16½ hours. The Delta-V will probably be 6 to 6½ feet per second. Over.
Apollo 7. I read your message but very weak.
Roger.
It's lunch time at 16 hours. Is that correct?
That's affirmative - about.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. Thirty seconds LOS.
Roger, Houston. We got your message.
Roger. Thank you.
Apollo 7. I've got four balls, one on the star data check, and use star munber 1 Alpheratz, star number 7 Menkar, and we're going to go ahead and take the gyro torquing angle. Is that the intention? Over.
Apollo 7, Houston. We'll take those angles.
Apollo 7, Houston. We'd like for you to switch to Simplex B on my MARK.
Okay.
Apollo 7, you switch to Simplex B.
MARK.
Houston, Apollo 7. We read Simplex B.
Apollo 7, Houston. Roger. You got a lot more graph at this time on Simplex B than on A.
You're still coming through clear, but you're way down. I'd say about level 2 compared to the other.
Roger. And, Walt, we would like to verify that the primary evaporator water control valve on panel 382 is in the AUTO position.
Roger. Did you read the data on the P52 that I did for the REFSMMAT realignment?
I missed that. Say again.
Roger. downlink when I did the P52 for the REFSMMAT realignment?
Affirmative. Three balls 1 and stars 1 and 7; and, secondly, we would like to know what portion of the malfunction procedures that you have acccmplished on the primary glycol of that ALT TEMP HI?
Roger. I've gone down to box 18 or box 21, depending on how long you wait or whether you take the intermediate characteristics or not. That thing has stayed down for a long period of time; then it came up fairly spontaneosly to steam pressure.
Roger. We understand.
And one time ended up over with the primary evaporator water control valve... closed. The other possibility is the evaporator was frozen. I'm going to go check the water control valve now.
Roger. Can you do that without disturbing our sleeping CMP?
We will be doing it. I also would like to get the same pressures that the height - that the oxygen tank is controlling to the actual pressures.
Roger. I have them if you're ready to copy.
Ready to copy. Go.
O2 tank 1 deadband 880 to 926, O2 tank 2 870 to 912.
Roger. Thank you. And how about just correlating between what these meters are reading, if you want to run that 5.8 CRYO zero-g test.
Roger.
And the hydrogen test is in work now.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. One minute to LOS. Simplex A on LOS.
Roger.
And that was a good try on the evaporator water control. The evaporator water control primary is in AUTO; and for your information, I'm also runnnng with the evaporator water control secondary in AUTO in case I do get into a situation where I have to activate the secondary loop.
Roger. Understand.
Hey, Ron. It's not a good situation, but I don't consider we got any kind of real problems with that primary coolant loop right now.
7, Houston. We concur with that.
7, Houston. We're just now looking at the dump data that we have picked up on REV 7.
Roger.
At 13 hours 24 minutes and 30 seconds into this flight, we took on magazine Peter, frame - frames 7 and 8, what we believe to be the Red Sea.
At 13:27:32, magazine P for Peter, frame 14 or 15: the Gulf of Omen.
At 13 hours and 32 minutes, I'm finishing up the first step of P5.8 CRYO zero-g test for hydrogen. Pressurizing the - the pressure seemed to be stabilized some 2 minutes after the time of fuel cells.
My data shows that there's possibly a slight drop in pressure when I switch the fans ON. However, after looking at the needle, I can't really be sure. The range of pressures covered is very narrow, and we plan to operate by a set of ground figures. The pressure band will be my own estimation there is no.
This is the.
At 13:37 into the flight, frame 58 on magazine M was taken of the sidehatch window, documenting the continuing degradation of the outer frame of that window.
Apollo 7, Houston through Mercury.
Got you loud and clear.
Roger. We would like to get a Verb 06 Noun 21; read out the PIPA count. We would like to get your onboard readout. Our Y PIPA count down here has - oh, it's been zero for a long time.
through us.
Roger, we can't very well fix that about 2 minutes.
Hey, Ron. I concluded CRYO T 5.8 for the hydrogen tanks at 90 percent level, and it didn't look to me like we had any stratification. My pressures that were loaded down did drop a little bit, but I'm not sure just from the angle I'm reading it.
Walt, you are coming through HF this time across there, and I can't read you very well. Can you talk a little slower?
Roger. Understand. I did complete the hydrogen tanks, a 90-percent portion of the CRYO stratification test; and as I compared others, it was my own estimation that we really didn't have any stratification there.
Islands off China in the Sea of Japan magazine P for Peter, frame 18, time 13:45.
Frame number 19, time 13:47:56; small island.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. Current tracking indicates that the Service Module - the command/servicee module will trail the S-IVB at 14ge! By about 30 miles. So if we go ahead and do this upcoming maneuver, we will yield about nominal displacement a MC - MCC1. The S-IVB orbit on third day, however, yields a displacement between 63 and 87 miles if we go ahead and make the burn. And this was all based on beacon tracking, so it's pretty good.
Roger.
They think there's two guys in the LM; let's get to it.
Roger. We're working on the update, and we'll probably give it over Redstone.
Okay.
Looks like the GETI is about 15 plus 52, though.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 7. Are you still monitoring the DSKY?
To save fuel.
The islands were the Marshall Islands.
Let's see. At 14 hours and 6 minutes into the flight, which is possibly 2½ hours after chlorination of the water, the water in the drinking guns does not taste very good after two squirts. In fact, tastes very bad.
Apollo 7, Houston. I have a maneuver PAD to give you.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
They copying?
Houston, Apollo 7. Do you read?
Apollo 7, Houston.
We read you. Go ahead.
Houston, Apollo 7. Ready to copy. Go.
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni.
We read you, Houston. Loud and clear.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. We read you. Go ahead.
Houston, Apollo 7. We are reading you 5 by 5. Go ahead.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston through Redstone.
Roger. We read yoll.
Roger. I have a maneuver PAD to give you.
You're very weak, but we think we can take it. Go ahead.
Roger. Phasing number 2: 015 52 0000 NA NA NA, 1647 plus 1202 00065 32445 NA NA 019. Skip to roll, pitch, yaw: roll 181, pitch 276, yaw 001. Comment: RCS/SCS BEF heads up, plus X thrusters, monitor burn with P47. Read back.
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni.
Apollo 7, Houston. Did you copy?
Apollo 7. One minute LOS; Ascension 14 plus 39.
Roger. We read your whole message. Did you copy back?
Negative on the readbaak.
Apollo 7, Houston through Ascension.
Roger, Houston. This is Apollo 7. How do you read this time?
Roger. Loud and clear this time, Walt. We plan to reservice the evaporator and then shut it down.
52 0000 NA 1647 plus 1202 00065 32445 NA 019 181 276 001. And I copied all the realign.
Apollo 7, Houston. Say again the GTI.
Roger. GTI is 015 52 0000.
Roger. Your readback is correct. 7, Houston. The steps on reservicing the shutdown are real good. Reference information; make sure you have them. Lock all the back steam pressure practically AUTO to MANUAL. Steam pressure INCREASE switch, INCREASE for 45 seconds. Glycol is at - H2O flow ON for 2 minutes and then center.
Roger. You know I have already done that twice in the past, and if you notice now that steam pressure is unhooked and come back up. It seems to come up whenever the glycol evaporator outlet temperature gets down pretty cool like during the night. Do you want me to continue in going to MANUAL, INCREASE 45 seconds, and reservice the water evaporator?
Affirmative. We just want to reservice it now and then chut it down.
Roger.
The idea, Walt, is that the radiators will carry a load without the primary evaporator on the line.
I don't think we have any manual control over the steam pressure. I am going to service the water flowing now.
Roger.
Wally seems to have a pretty bad head cold. He took two aspirins about 15 minutes ago, and he has been blowing his nose.
Walt, say again. I missed, that.
Wally has a pretty stuffed-up head here. He took two aspirins about 15 minutes ago and has been blowing his nose pretty much all day long.
Roger. We understand.
We would like to check on.
About 1 minute until LOS there, Walt. We just want to make sure that you realize we are trying to shut down evaporator, and we think the radiator will carry the load.
Roger. See you all later.
What he said is incomplete.
Magazine M, frame 22 taken at 14 hours and 55 minutes into flight.
At 14 hours 59 minutes into the flight, the magazine P, as in Peter, frame 22 was taken of the Sinai Peninsula on the Gulf of Aqaba, and frame 24 was taken in the same general area.
At 15:02:07, I photographed off the mainland of coastal India I think, an island of some great length; frame 27, magazine P as in Peter. The last one was - may be an island off the coast of - Gulf of Omni.
The island with the smoke coming off of it was in the Persian Gulf.
Apollo 7, Houston. I can give you time hack at 35 minutes prior to the burn. Four, three, two, one.
MARK.
Thirty-five minutes.
That's 35, wasn't it?
Affirmative, 35.
around - here at the glycol evaporator, and we have the steam pressure in MANUAL and the water flow OFF, but that last bit of servicing I did seemed to do a good bit of increase in the steam pressure.
Hoger. Undarstand. The last bit of servicing increased the steam pressure?
Yes. That last 2 minutes worth brought the steam pressure up right handily. Right now I'm reading about.23 on the steam pressure.
Roger.
Walt, we concur with that. That's okay.
That's good news. Yes.
Roger. Is there am MD type there, or do you still have those experimental doctors there?
They're watching and waiting.
You know I asked about taking a decongestant or antibiotic.
Roger. Stand by. I wasn't aware of that, Wally; I'll get the word on it.
Didn't you get the word that Walt passed back earlier? I've taken two aspirin.
Say again. I think that was in the garbled part that we couldn't make out. Say again the problem.
I have a nose cold. I've already gone through about eight or nine Kleenexes with some pretty good blows. I've taken two aspirin, and I am wondering if there is anything else I could take?
Roger.
I'd like to find out your druthers on the water boiler after that last servicing. If we're going to leave it off for a while - because you know we don't really need it - I'd still sometime in the future like to run it again. I'm not sure but what it's not worklng right now.
Walt, this is kind of what we expected in this condition with them not running, and what we'd like to do is try to rev, at least a rev anyhow, with the EVAP off the line.
Roger. Whatever you say.
Wally, Houston here. The good doctors are recommending that you take one Actifed or the Code Echo.
A decongestant; is that it?
That's affirmative. That's what it is.
Okay.
Apollo 7, Houston. We want to take a look at the PIPA biases. We'd like you to remain in P47 for awhile after the burn on the Redstone pass.
Okay.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Roger. It looks like we're going to have to have one final request after the burn here. Our calculations shows that our waste water is going to be 85 percent at about 19 hours and we're not sure whether Donn can hook up all this good deal stuff in the middle of your guys' sleep period, so it's kinda at your discretion - whether you want to dump it prior to going to bed or let Donn dump it sometime around 19 hours.
Roger. It's all been hooked up now. We have that urine dump hose hooked up at one end all the time. It's a simple job for one fellow without disturbing us, but I had mentioned - at least to Deke - about putting that waste water tank on up to more like 95 percent so you don't have to have quite as high an activity dumping it all the time.
We're kinda agreeing with you in a way, and yet we'd kinda like to let it run up to the full point a little later on in the mission than in the early part of the mission.
Okay. We do have a gage 5 percent up above 90 - without too much strain if we can get around to it.
Walt, I think we can give you probably an actual number a little later on in the mission here when we figure out how much fuel cells are dumping in the water in and all these good deal things.
Okay.
Now, that's a good sign. How are they doing? Booger's right up there.
Yes, that's a good idea.
(Sneeze) Huh?
What's that?
net properly seated.
What's that?
Right there.
It's in the bag? Okay.
Yes.
Did you find out anything? Did it stratify?
Yes, okay. What did the...
260 19. Uh huh. Okay.
Yes. Okay.
Well, that one meter reads a little low too, as I remember. Doesn't it?
Alright. You're not going to monkey with the water boiler, I gather, just let things go as they are?
What did you say? What's going on? The glycol EVAP broke?
Okay.
Yes. Okay. Wait a minute.
When do we do that burn?
Okay, let's see what we're getting.
Okay.
Yes.
Huh? As I understand it, we're pitching back.
Apollo 7, Houston through Redstone.
Apollo -
Apollo 7, Houston. Request omni A.
Roger. Omni A.
Roger.
Turning.
Roger.
Braking, please.
Roger.
We flipped it in that burn that long. Residuals are zero en the DELTA-V gage - and completed the -
Do you affirm?
Apollo 7, Houston. One minute LOS. I believe that we got our money's worth of day. How about getting a good night's sleep?
Roger. Ron, thanks for your help, and Donn is on watch.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7. Go.
Roger. I have two items: we woulld like a check on the CMP BIOMED harness when it is convenient; we are not getting anything; and we would like to check the pin connectors, the signal conditioners, connectors, and at last resort, press down on the sensor. Second item: information, it will probably take about 28 minutes for draining the H2O.
Roger. I have been fighting this harness. It doesn't make up properly. I don't know how we are going to get it. Say again regarding water.
Roger.
Running water.
I am sorry, Apollo; I cut you out. Say again, please.
I say my BIOMED harnes's is not making up properly. I don't know whether it is going to work.
Roger.
Frame 26 of magazine Papa at 16:34.
Humidity survey check, in the right window area: and ambient temperature is 78 degrees point. Lift-off temperature is 56 degrees.
Cabin fan, outlet, 76 degrees. Left 56 degrees.
Lower equipment bay, on the left side, 45 degrees and 56 degrees.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7. Go.
Houston, Apollo 7. Go.
Roger. I have a couple of items here that we would like verification if you have it; that the water chlorination was performed at 11 hours and 20 minutes...
Roger, that was done.
Second item, I mentioned it before, but I couldn't understand the answer. We want to advise it will take 28 minutes to drain the water.
Roger. Understand. Twenty-eight minutes to drain the water. You are referring to the waste-tank dump.
I sm sorry, waste-tank dump. Affirmative.
Roger. We are only up to 40 percent on waste water so we got a ways to go.
Thank you.
Apollo 7, Houston. Did you read me on the water chlorination?
Roger. We did the chlorination at 11 hours 20 minutes; Wally did it.
Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 7. Command module pilot got about 6 hours of sack time, of which 4 hours was pretty decent sleep. I would have slept a little better except that I am not used to going to bed at 6 o'clock local time for me. I think in a day or two I will adjust to the cycle.
Apollo 7, Houston. Roger.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7. Go.
Roger. We have a procedure that we would like for you to go through for some ground analysis. We monitor that you are in P00. We would like for you to follow this procedure: Verb 22 Noun 21, enter.
Roger. You want me to do Verb 22 Noun 21, Enter.
Affirmative.
It is done.
Thank you.
Roger. Now go plus 11111, enter.
Roger. Plus five ones, enter.
Affirmative.
Apollo 7, Houston. They are merely monitoring this from the ground. Also, one other point: they would like to confirm the 40 percent reading on the water, on the waste water.
Oh, wait a second. Stand by. That is 75.
Roger. Understand. Seventy-five.
Roger. I gave you the wrong number before.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. One minute till LOS. We'll be back to you.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston, AOS Canary.
Roger, Rouston, Apollo 7.
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni, please.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. Coming up in about 2 minutes LOS at Canary,and we have a brief pass at Madrid. And it will be about 40 minutes before we pick you up at Honeysuckle, and we will need the S-band volume up at that time. That will be Honeysuckle about 18:38.
Roger. Understand. Honeysuckle S-band only, 18:38.
Roger.
Frame 27, magazine Papa; 18 hours, 23 minutes.
Six clicks of water for Eisele at 18:30.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston. One minuLe LOS Honeysuckle; Redstone at 18 plus 57. LOS Honeysuckle. Redstone at 18 plus 57.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 7. Go.
Roger. AOS Redstone.
Roger. I missed you at Honeysuckle.
Roger. We couldn't get lock-on.
That is what I thought. It sounded like it was trying there a couple of times.
I thought I heard you trying to answer, too. All I heard was keying and side tones
Yes.
Apollo 7, Houston. Would like some clarification on the BIOMED harness. If you can, just briefly, was it the connectors wouldn't stay together or what?
Well, I got it together now. Are you getting any signal on it?
Negative. Okay. That is all I wanted to know.
Roger. I had trouble getting the plugs to make up. They would stick together, but they wouldn't quite go all the way in and lock. I finally got it to lock.
Apollo 7, Houston. Roger. Copied. And what is you H2O waste water quantity now?
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni, please.
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni, please.
Roger, Bill. I just switched mic. Did you want to go back?
Negative. Stand by one.
Apollo 7, Houston. Negative. You have it now. We have COMM, I, and we lost you there for about a minute.
Roger.
CapCom.
Apollo 7, Houston. Opposite omni, please.
Apollo 7, Houston. One minute LOS Redstone; Antigua at 19 plus 16.
Apollo 7, Houston.
This is Apollo 7. Go.
Roger. AOS at Antigua. We have about 20 minutes.
Okay. Bill, I have some readings on Command Module RCS Jet temperatures. Do you want those numbers.
I'll take them. Go.
Okay. These are test meter readings. They are all - 5C is 5 volts; 5D is 4.8; 6A was 4.8; 6B, C, and D wera all 5. These were taken about 16 hours.
Roger. Understand. Hello, Apollo 7, Houston. I do have a Flight Plan update.
Roger. Go with your Flight Plan update.
At 23 plus 53, TV ON. That is at Texas AOS on stateside pass. That is the end of the Flight Plan update.
I understand. You want TV on at 23 plus 53. How does that fit in with our burn and rendezvous sequence?
That should fit in all right.
Okay. Sounds like you got some music coming in the background. Is that you?
You must he picking up the twilight zone there.
Bill, is someone trying to pipe in a radio program to us, or are we just picking that up spiritually?
That must be a spurious signal, Donn. No, we don't have anything piped in.
Okay. I am getting a hot tip on some hospital insurance plan from some guy.
Okay. Maybe they are trying to tell you something.
Mavbe he knows something I don't.
Apollo 7, Houston. Coming up on LOS Antigua; AOS Canary at 19 plus 27.
Roger. Understand. Log another 12 clicks on water for me, will you?
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. AOS Canary.
Roger. Go.
Apollo 7, Houston. Coming up on LOS Canary. Carnarvon at 20 plus 03.
Frames 29 through 36 were taken approximately 19 hours and 43 minutes; Nile Delta over to the Red Sea.
At about 19:45, we had a MASTER ALARM, a SUIT COMPRESSOR light, and an AC BUS 1. We reset AC BUS 1 after checking the voltages, and the suit compressor came back on, the bus came on right. Everything is back to normal.
Apollo 7, Houston.
This is Apollo 7. Go.
Roger. AOS Carnarvon.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 7.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. I was just doing a little star examination here at sunset with the sun at my back, so to speak, and you can see stars - quite a few - out the telescope; however, the minute you move the telescope controls, a lot of shiny white particles flutter out, and they obscure the field of view. I know what that is; apparently, these particles are some moisture in the optics assembly that get out when you're moving around in shaft motion, and they go out and obscure what you're looking at if the sum is shining on them.
Roger. I understand that you can see stars in the telescope okay with the sun at your back; however, when you move, the optics in shaft - their white particles come off and sort of cloud the view.
That's right. Looks like it's snowing out there, and it would he impossible to do any kind of useful alignment with a situation like that. Also, at times when the Sun is more direct on the side where the optics are, it appears to be either a lot of light leak or Sun shining reflecting down inside the optics assembly, but except at near sundown with the sun at the opposite side from the optics, you just don't see anything when you look out there. You just see a big blur of light.
Roger. I understand that you apparently have something that looks like a light leak when the sun is directly on the side of the - is that the side of the spacecraft Where the optics are located?
Oh, I don't know if it's directly on that side or not; it's kind of hard to tell, but at times when the Sun is up and we get some random drifting attitude here, I've looked in to see if I could see anything, and it was just near impossible. There was just a lot of light in the telescope. It had the appearance of a light leak around - somewhere in the assembly. I don't know if that's true or not or perhaps, it's just the reflection coming in, but it makes it hard to see anything.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. Have you been able to go through an alignment?
Not in the daytime. I'm going to do a fine align here in just a minute.
Okay.
Houston, are you getting these gyro torquing angles?
Apollo 7, Houston. Stand by.
Apollo 7, Houston. Roger. We are receiving gyro torquing angles.
Apollo 7, Houston. Coming up LOS Honeysuckle; at Redstone at 20 plus 33.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger, Houston. Go.
Roger. It has been advised that we monitor you have had a switchover to a secondary of low proportional unit in primary loop and request that you switch back to the primary for a proportional unit.
Roger. Stand by.
We are now back on one. Do you want me to leave it in one, or go back to AUTO?
Go to AUTO. Apollo 7. Houston. Go to AUTO.
Okay.
Also, we are now monitoring 85 percent on waste water.
Say again.
Ground monitors 85 percent quantity on waste water.
I can't read you, Bill; you're coming in garbled with a lot of static.
Roger. Waste water dump, waste water dump: we're monitoring 85 percent.
Apollo 7, Houston. How do you read now?
That's better, Houston.
Roger. Did you get my call about the waste water dump?
Roger. Say again about the water dump.
We are monitoring 85 percent quantity waste water now.
Roger. Understand you got 85; I'll have to get Wally up to get under him, to get those pieces. I'd rather wait until he wakes up, which - he'll be awake in another hour or so anyway; Could we wait till then?
Roger. Stand by.
Apollo 7, Houston. Affirmative. You can wait another hour. We're 1 minute LOS Redstone, and we'll have AOS Bahamas at 20 plus 49.
Understand.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, this is Apollo 7. Go.
Donn, I would like to brief you all on something that has come up here, and it has to do with the Y PIPA. Statement is made that based on telemetry readouts, we feel or suspect that Y PIPA counts are not getting into the CMC. We've been monitoring practically zero. Now this is still sort of in ferment, but it looks like now they would like to have an RCS burn completed to perform a check on the Y PIPA's. If so, this will be done on the next rev over Texas.
Apollo 7, Houston. This would be a sort of small burn plus Y, then minus Y, then total DELTA-V about 5 feet per second.
Bill, I missed practically your whole transmission, and all I heard was that you had something for me, and then you said something about a small burn. Would you run it by again, please?
Roger. Apollo 7, Houston. How do you read now?
Roger. It's loud end clear.
Right. Based on telemetry readouts, we suspect the Y-axis, Y-axis PIPA counts are not getting into the CMC. In order to check this out, we would like to do a small RCS translation plus Y and then minus Y. Total test will consume about 10 pounds of fuel, and it's proposed that this be performed at 22 plus 23 and will be over Texas on your next pass.
Okay. Twenty-two plus 23; you will want a plus Y and a minus X. Do you want us to have a program up like 47, then?
Okay. I'll go through the procedure that is proposed here now. Step 1, we would like to - the test to be done in P00; also, we would like to have A/C roll ENABLED. Then the attitude would be roll 180, pitch 326, and yaw zero. With that attitude, we would like a plus Y translation for 7 seconds, then turn the A/C roll back off.
Wait a second, just hold the phone. You want P00, you want A/C roll ENABLED, I got 180, 3260 roll; and after that, I was replying on that, but you were talking. Would you say again all that after the attitude?
Roger. Sorry about, that. I will go a little bit slower. Roger. I'll go back over it. You got it copied correctly. We do want it in P00, and we would like the SCS channel A/C roll ENABLED also for the test. Attitude, roll 180, pitch 326, yaw zero. With that attitude, translate plus Y 7 seconds; then wait 30 seconds, 30 seconds; then translate minus Y for 7 seconds; then turn the A/C roll channel back off.
Roger. You have a terrible squeal in there, Bill; I don't know what it is. I understand, and you want plus Y for 7 seconds, then pause 30 seconds, then minus Y 7 seconds. Now at what time again did you want this, 22 plus how many?
We would like that at 22 hours and 23 minutes. That will be over Texas.
Okay. I guess we can do that. Just out of curiosity, what do you hope to prove by having only P00 going? That won't - certainly won't put into the same vector if you do that.
Well, actually what we want to do is monitor your PIPA's and see if in fact they are feeding informarion into the computer.
I see.
Also, I have a block data update if you will tell me when you are ready to copy.
All right. Stand by.
Bill, you can go ahead with your block.
Roger. Be for 015 dash 1 Alpha plus 291 minus 0629 0021 042 4275, 016 dash 1 Bravo plus 312 minus 0630 023 4641 4539, 017 dash 1 Alpha plus 298 minus 0629 025 22 18 4856, 018 dash 1 Alpha plus 252 minus 0685 026 5628 5106, 019 dash 4 Alpha plus 314 minus 1624 029 4342.
Apollo 7, Houston. Are yon reading?
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. Go ahead, Houston. You dropped out there for 3 or 4 minutes.
Roger. Meyer here. How far did we get through on that?
Just up to 15.
Roger. Did - okay, I'll go through 015 dash 1 Alpha briefly again. 015 dash 1 Alpha plus 291 minus 0629 022 1042 4275. Starting with the next one: 016 dash 1 Bravo plus 312 minus 0630 023 4641 4539, 017 dash 1 Alpha plus 298 minus 0629 025 2218 4856, 018 dash 1 Alpha plus 252 minus 0685 026 5628 5106, 019 dash 4 Alpha plus 341 minus 1624 029 4342, 4363 0202 plus 310 minus 1623 031 1829 4679, 021 dash 4 Alpha plus 261 minus 1633 032 53 56 4944, 021 dash 4 Alpha. Standing by for readback.
Roger. Readback follows: 015 dash 1 Alpha plus 291 minus 0629 022 10 42 4275, 016 dash 1 Bravo plus 312 minus 0630 023 46 41 4539, 017 dash 1 Alpha plus 298 minus 0629 025 22 18 4856, 018 dash 1 A plus 252 minus 0685 026 56 28 51 01.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. Go.
Roger. I only got part of the read, ack. If you would confirm in the third block 017 dash 1 Alpha, second line plus 298.
Roger. Plus 298.
Okay. If you would pick up and read as far as you can get, starting with 019 dash 4 Alpha.
Okay. Here goes: 194 Alpha plus 314 minus 1624 029 4342 4363, 020 dash 4 Alpha plus 310 minus 1623 031829 4679, 021 dash 4 A plus
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 7. Go.
Roger. AOS Carnarvon. I also have an advisory. We're monitoring 90 percent - 90 percent on waste water now, and we'd like to get a dump whenever - as soon as it is convenient.
Okay. Wally is still in the sack. As soon as he's up, we'll dump it; and meanwhile, I'm starting to maneuver around to the attitude for that little test maneuver you want to do.
Roger. Thank you.
Apollo 7, Houston. We have about a little over 1 minute to LOS Carnarvon. Request S-band volume up, please.
Roger. S-band Volume going up.
Thank you.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger, Houston. Go. Apollo 7.
Roger. After the RCS test over the States, we will be sending up two NAV loads and one target load, and we will just work on them as soon as we can.
Okay. Fine. Hey, Bill?
Roger. Go.
Roger. A couple of hours ago - I neglected to tell you before that, and I'm sorry - we had an anomaly up here. We got an AC bus 1 drop out, and all we did was reset it, and it kept on running; and we never did see anything anomalous other than that, other then we confirm that the voltage has dropped off and the inverter had come off the line apparently.
Okay. You had an AC bus 1 drop out. You reset it, and it was okay, but you did confirm it was a bona fide malfunction because the voltage did drop.
That's right. All three phases were - well, were pegged on the bottom of the meter, and all we did was hit RESET and punch the warning lights off, and it kept right on running.
Okay. Thank you very much. That is copied.
Okay. We've had no trouble with it since. Everything's been normal.
All right. Thank you.
Apollo 7, Houston. Coming up on LOS at Honeysuckle. We will have acquisition Texas at 22 plus 19.
Roger. You are saying 22 plus 19.
Roger.
Apollo 7. Over.
Houston, Apollo 7. Over.
This is LMP. At 21 hours, 40 minutes defecation. I'm going to make a few subjective comments about it and, I trust.
I did attach the urine collection device and voided myself at the same time. I noticed my general language on the
At any rate, on that - there are several problems have come up that we hadn't particularly expected. One is the constant wear garment. In addition to that, there's nothing really large enough to accommodate the bag. It makes it quite messy when it springs back after completion of a defecatlon. The other alternative is to take the - the constant wear garment off the shoulders and put it down around your knees. Now, in order to do that, you have to disconnect the BIOMED sensors, which are not color coded incidentally, and the - very difficult for them to hook them all back up to the right place.
Other than that, the problems are really surprisingly few. I voided myself simultaneously, dumped the urine collection. Cleaning myself up, I had relatively little mess. I utilized two of the tissues, each of which were used, folded, used again, and then used a third tissue which had earlier been soaked with water from the water gun, cleaning up rather well, and then went ahead and used the wet-wipe that is provided. It's worth noting that those wet-wipes that come in the fecal bag do not have any Velcro on them for attaching to the wall, and that's a definite handicap.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger, Houston. Go.
Roger. AOS Texas. I'll give you a time hack here.
Twenty-two hours, 20 minutes, 9, 10, 11, 12.
Roger. We're right on it.
And counting to burn: 2 minutes and 38, 7, 6, 5.
Roger. Thank you.
Houston, Apollo 7. Do you read?
Roger. Apollo 7, Houston. Go.
Roger. I'm on the right lead headset. I commenced dumping the waste water tank about 2 minutes ago. I'd like to have you confirm the temperature in that dump line whenever you get a chance.
Roger.
And I understand Donn told you about the AC batt 1 temporary glitch there. I can't figure why it came off; I don't think we have the automatic disconnect, anymore.
Roger. Understand. We copied that one.
Apollo 7, Houston. We would like a TLM input to high, please; telemetry input high.
Look. If you guys are in the middle of a dump, I have to go planned RESET to do that. If you are in the middle of a dump, I'm going to stop it.
We're not dumping.
You guys can either stop your dump in comnand high, or I'm going to have to do it.
Apollo 7, Houston. We are not dumping.
Okay. Thank you.
Go up to high bit rate?
Roger.
Plus Y.
Affirmative.
Roger. We're going to count down to the burn.
Roger.
Four, three, two, one.
MARK.
Apollo 7, Houston. That PIPA cheek looked good. Good information, and we will be updating your bias later.
Roger.Understand. PIPA check looked good. Thank you.
Bill, we checked the PIPA's on here twice, and I've got just about zero PIPA bias when I did, although there is - someone else loaded it in; I was a little suspicious, too, on the basis of that. You say you did get outputs from it, and you think we're still - the G&N is still okay?
Roger. Looks like it's so good, it fooled us.
Okay.
We were thinking along the same lines as you were.
All right. I probably ought to get an updated bias then.
Roger.
I show waste water quantity down to 50 percent. How are you doing?
Stand by.
Can you tell me what dump line temperature is?
Apollo 7, Houston. I'm trying to get that information for you; stand by.
Apollo 7, Houston. Your dump nozzle temperature is 66 degrees, and the quantity is now reading 47.2.
Roger. Thank you. We're just about in agreement with that.
Apollo 7, Houston. If you'll go to Accept, we'll send up your NAV loads.
If you have time this pass, Bill, why don't you give us an updated readout on our quad RCS quantities?
Your RCS propellent quantities?
That's affirmative.
Roger. Stand by.
Apollo 7, Houston. We'll brief you on that just a little later.
Understand.
Apollo 7, Houston. Will you go to Accept, please?
Correct telemeter.
Apollo 7, Houston. You are Go for a 33 dash 1.
Roger. Go for 33 dash 1. Did you receive our comment? We had a Flight Plan update for TV UD's and will be unable to support anything but the normally scheduled Flight Plan activities until after the rendezvous.
Roger. Understand.
Apollo 7, Houston. I am still waiting for the exact numbers, but your RCS propellant quantity does look near nominal.
Roger. Standing by.
Hey, you notice any difference in the voice quality out of the spacecraft? I'm on the lightweight headset now.
I was reading Donn much more clearly.
Understand.
Apollo 7, Houston. Both NAV loads and target loads are in; the computer is yours. Also, I have the - a list of the RCS usable propellants: quad A 285, B 299, C Charlie 281, D Dog 297.
Roger. You say 285, 299, 281, and 297. That right?
Apollo 7, Houston. Affirmative. And I trying to get that converted to percent.
We would like a total pereantage readout on that, Bill.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. Houston, Apollo 7. Go.
Roger. Regarding the Flight Plan problems here: we would just ask to reconsider that, and it is in there at this particular time because of the passage over the site.
Roger. Bill, I understand. We're going to be pretty busy along about then, and I think we are going to continue with what we had plunned for normaI activities.
Roger. Let me go over my update again there. That time was at 23 plus 53 plus 00, and I might have sent that time up wrong. Looks like at that particular time, it could possibly be worked in.
Roger. time, no TV till after rendezvous.
Apollo 7, Houston. I have thc RCS propellant usable in terms of percentage. Do you want me to read them or not?
Roger. Go ahead.
Roger. RCS usable remaining quad A Alpha 86.7 percent, B Bravo 90 percent, C charlie 85 percent, D Delta 90 percent.
Apollo 7, Houston. I have PIPA bias update.
Roger. Stand by.
Go ahead, Bill.
Roger. For the Verb 21 Noun 1 enter 1720 enter, the PIPA bias is zero enter.
Roger. Understand, zero enter.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston. One minute LOS Canary; Tananarive at 22 plus 59.
Roger.
Apollo 7, Houston CapCom.
Apollo 7, Houston CapCom.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7. How do you read me?
I read you five-by. How me?
Roger. Reading you fine. Over.
Okay. Wally, I've got a T-align time for you I'd like to pass up. We've got a short pass here.
Go with it.
Roger. T align. 23 plus 24 plus 08 00.
Twenty-three plus 24 plus 08 00. Over.
Roger. That's correct. Now, concerning the matter of the television, there's been considerable discussion here in the center. The Flight Director wants you to turn on the television at the appropriate time.
Walt will be on the air shortly.
Okay. Wally, after this, I've got MCC-1 PAD I'd like to give you, and if I can't give it here, I will give it over Carnarvon.
Roger. Go with it.
Go with your maneuver PAD.
Let's wait first and get Wally's comments on the television.
Okay, Walt. We'll go ahead with the MCC-1 PAD here.
I'm ready to copy. Go.
Okay. 026 24 5510 plus 00617 minus 00010 plus 01985 1960 plus 1243 01978 32398 minus 090 minus 030 010 35 1981 151 025 41...
We can read you.
We've lost him.
5500.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7. Go ahead.
Roger. Wally, I'd like to finish the MCC-1 PAD, and could you tell me how far you copied before we got LOS Tananarive?
Roger. Jack, I got 25 hours and 41 minutes on the NAV check. I didn't get the seconds. Conttnue after that.
Okay. Seconds - starting at the seconds; 5500 plus 2766 minus 05376 1226 359 284 359. You have the T align of 23 plus 24 plus 08 00.
Roger. The T align was 23 plus 24 plus 08 00, MCC1 26 24 5510 plus 00617 minus 00010 plus 01985 1960 plus 1243 01978 32398 minus 090 minus 030 010 35 1981 151 025 41 5500 minus 2766 minus 05376 1226 359 284 359. Over.
Roger, It's correct except the Noun 43 the latitude; the sign should be plus 2766.
Roger. I have plus here.
Okay. You got it.
Houston, Apollo 7.
Go ahead, Wally.
Roger. You've added two burns to this flight schedule, and you've added a urine water dump; and we have a new vehicle up here, and I can tell you this point TV will be delayed without any further discussion until after the rendezvous.
Roger. Copy.
Roger.
Apollo 7. This is CapCom number 1.
Roger.
All we've agreed to do on this is flip it.
with two commanders, Apollo 7.
All we have agreed to on this particular pass is to flip the switch on. No other activity associated with TV; I think we are still obligated to do that.
We do not have the equipment out; we have not had an opportunity to follow setting; we have not eaten at this point. At this point, I have a cold. I refuse to foul up our time lines this way.
Apollo 7, Houston. Could we have opposite omni please and your PMP power to OX?
PMP going to OX now.
Hey, Jack. They left us without that tape recorder running again on the last, - after the last pass. The problem we have here is I am hesitant to stop and Command Reset and start tape going because you might be in the middle of a dump that you want to continue later. So we really are left without nothing - I mean between passes at the - tape motions left barher pole like that.
Okay. We copy.
7, Houston.
Go ahead.
Walter, the reason the - you lost - you had the tape recorder at barber pole when you left Canaries; we had a power loss at Canaries just before LOS, and we didn't get the command to you. It shouldn't happen again; everybody has been briefed on the proper operation there.
Okay, Jack. I understand. I guess - I am going to assume if it's barbar poled after we have left contact with you, then it's running in a forward direction and ready to record. Jack, can you verify that?
Stand by. Let me get the word from EECOM.
Okay. Walt, EECOM says that is - that assumption of yours is correct.
Thank you, and for your information down there, I have yet to activate the EPS line heaters. They have been off ever since liftoff. The temperature seems to be holding very, very constant at 70, and I verified that with the oxidizing feedline temperature, also.
Okay. Real fine.
And did you ever get the Command Module RCS temperatures down there during the night?
Yes, we did. Do you want them passed rap?
Negative. We are going to read those from time to time and pass them on to you.
Okay.
Apollo 7, Houston. We would like to have your TLM switch switched to LOW.
in RESET to stop the motion.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. Wally, I'd like to finish the MCC1 PAD, and can you tell me how far you copied before we got to LOS Tananarive?
Roger. Jack, I got 25 hours, 41 minutes of the NAP check; i didn't get the seconds to continue after that.
Okay. Seconds 5500 plus 2766 minus 05376 1226 359 284 359. You have the key align 23 plus 24 plus 0800.
Roger. Key align 23 plus 24 plus 0800 MCC1 26 24 5510 plus 00617 minus 0010 plus 01985 1960 plus 1243 01978 32398 minus 090 minus 030 010 35 1981 151 025 41 5500 minus 2766 minus 05376 1226 359 284 359. Over.
Roger. It's correct except the Noun 43; the latitude sign should be plus 2766.
At 22 hours, 37 minutes into the flight, the O2 partial pressure is 200 mm of mercury.
Huntsville AOS.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Houston, Apollo 7. Go ahead.
Houston, Apollo 7. Go ahead.
Huntsville LOS.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Go ahead, Houston.
Roger. Wally, we have some information on your evaporator and ECS procedures for and during the rendezvous here.
We would like for you to stay in your present configuration using the primary system with the radiators. If the evaporator, or primary evaporator, or ALTI temperature goes higher than 60 degrees, we would like for you to activate the primary evaporator then. And if it doesn't work, we would like for you to reserviee that primary evaporator and shut it down. Activate the secondary coolant loop with the radiator bypass.
Roger. Understand. Additional SOP and one question, did you say the glycol evaporator outlet temperature above 60 or the radiator outlet temperature above 60? Over.
Walt, the evaporator outlet temperature greater than 60.
Roger. Understand. Evaporator outlet greater than 60 and activate the primary water boiler; if it doesn't work again, I'll reservice it. Shut it down and activate secondary coolant loop with the radiator bypass.
Roger.
Houston, Apollo 7. I have the PMP back to normal after that last pass.
Roger. Copy.
Computer to you 23 hours and 56 minutes.
Roger. P00 the computer.
Roger, PAD 39. Hack it at 23 hours, 57 minutes.
Apollo 7, Houston.
Roger. Sounds like you're having a ball down there.
Roger. We just want you to know your key align for your REFSMMAT compares favorably with ours down here.
Thank you we're just going by overhead, just skimming the Gulf Coast right over the water.
