Apollo 9 Flight Journal - Day 1: Orbits 7-11 - Rest Period
Preparing for Sleep
Journal Home Page
Day 2
Apollo 9
Day 1: Orbits 7-11 - Rest Period
Corrected Transcript and Commentary Copyright © 2008 - 2025 by W. David Woods and Andrew Vignaux. All rights reserved.
Last updated 2025-02-14
"This is Apollo Control at 9 hours,
56 minutes into the flight of Apollo 9. During the last pass over
Hawaii at about 9:05 GET, the Flight Surgeon, Dr. John
Ziegelschmidt, reported the following mean heart rates on the crew.
He said that the Commander was registering 80 beats per minute, the
Command Module Pilot registered 80 beats per minute, while the
Lunar Module Pilot registered 68 beats per minute. The respiration
rates were as follows: 20 breaths per minute for the Commander, 16
for the Command Module Pilot and 12 for the Lunar Module Pilot. The
astronauts at that time were not yet resting. They were still doing
some minor housekeeping duties in preparation for the rest cycle.
In the meantime here at MSC we're maintaining a radio silence to
give the crew the maximum opportunity for rest. In the area of the
spacecraft systems, all of them are looking okay and they're being
monitored by the Flight Controllers here in Houston. No anomalies
occurring whatsoever. At 9 hours, 57 minutes into the flight with
the spacecraft now heading across the tip of Africa, the lower part
of Africa, on the seventh revolution, this is Apollo Control."
"This is Apollo Control at 10
hours, 51 minutes into the flight of Apollo 9. The spacecraft has
moved out of range of the Hawaii tracking station. During that pass
over Hawaii the Flight Surgeon was monitoring the
astro-bioenvironmental tab as they call it, the vital signs and
rates of the crew, and noted that all of their vital signs appeared
to be within the tolerable limits. The Commander, for example, was
indicating between 80 and 84 beats per minute. The Command Module
Pilot showing approximately 60 beats per minute, and about 10
respirations per minute. Flight Surgeon assumes that the astronauts
are still resting, perhaps another hour or so will be required
before they can lapse into a sound sleep. Meantime, all of the
systems on the spacecraft are reported operating well. Aa far as
we're able to determine, the Commander and the Command Module Pilot
are resting in the couches and the LM, the Lunar Module Pilot,
evidently is in the sleep station. We assume that since we receive
no biomedical data from the LM, the Lunar Module Pilot, on this
pass. Incidentally, at approximately 10 hours, and 42 minutes, some
9 minutes or so ago, Dave Scott doubled his total flight time in
space. He was a member of the Gemini 8 crew that had to reenter in
the Pacific on March 16, 1966, after some 10 hours and 41 minutes
of flight. He now has 10 hours, 54 minutes of flight. All systems
seem to be working well. The astronauts are in their rest cycle and
this is Apollo Control."
"This is Apollo Control at 11
hours, 50 minutes, into the flight of Apollo 9. At the present time
the spacecraft is flying over India on the 8th revolution. A little
earlier when the spacecraft was in range of Pretoria Tracking
Station, the digital chart indicated that the astronauts were
flying following parameters. Apogee was 126.6 nautical miles [234.5
km] and the perigee or low point was 108.1 nautical miles [200.2
km]. The altitude was about the same as earlier altutudes following
the first SPS burn. Spacecraft speed at that particular time was in
the neighborhood of 25,500 plus feet per second [7800 m/s]. At the
present time the spacecraft systems are powered down, they still
register okay here at mission control. Spacecraft cabin pressure is
maintaining stability at 4.9 psia [33.8 kPa] at 11 hours, 51
minutes into the flight of Apollo 9, this is Apollo Control."
"This is Apollo control at 12 hours
50 minutes Ground Elapsed Time. During the Hawaii pass some 30
minutes ago the Gold team flight surgeon reported receiving data on
the Lunar Module Pilot. Apparently astronaut Schweickart had moved
from his sleep station into one of the couches. The LM pilot's mean
heart beat registered 50 beats per minute and his mean respiration
registered 10 breaths per minute leading the surgeon to conclude
that he is dozing or beginning to sleep. No data was received on
the commender or the Command Module Pilot during the Hawaii
pass. Chances are they disconnected their biomed instrumentation
according to the flight surgeon. Cabin temperature is 68°F
[20°C] a very comfortable 68°. Meanwhile the count down
clock shows 5 hours 36 minutes plus, indicating that that's the
time left in the rest cycle for the Apollo 9 crew. The spacecraft
at the present time is over the Atlantic Ocean east of South
America coming up on the Ascension tracking station on this 9th
revolution all systems still seem to be functioning very well. At
12 hours 52 minutes into the flight of Apollo 9 this is Apollo
Control."
"This is Apollo Control. Spider and
Gumdrop, that's the code name for the Apollo 9 spacecraft, are over
the Pacific Ocean on this, the 9th rev. Apollo 9 moved out of the
range of the Guam tracking station about 10 minutes ago, and it
will be acquired by the tracking ship Mercury shortly. However,
since the crew is resting, no attempt will be made to talk with
them. During a recent pass the flight surgeon reported that TM data
on astronaut Schweickart indicates that he is sleeping soundly.
The countdown clock indicates that some 4 hours and 37 minutes of
rest remain before the crew will be awakened in preparation for the
second day's activities. Meanwhile, the flight controllers here at
MCC in Houston monitoring the spacecraft report the systems appear
to be functioning normally. At 13 hours 51 minutes GET, this is
Apollo Control."
"This is Apollo Control 14 hours 50
minutes Ground Elapse Time. Here in Mission Control we've recently
had a change of shift to the Orange team of flight controlers
headed up by flight director Pete Frank. Apollo 9 fifteen minutes
ago crossed over the Ascension Island tracking station in the South
Atlantic at which time pulses of the system were felt on the ground
so to speak by telemetry and all the systems are in pretty good
shape. Flight surgeon John Zeigleschmidt reported that LM pilot
Rusty Schweickart was not apparently sleeping very soundly because
his heart rate fluctuated somewhat during the past indicating that
he was staring [sic] in his sleep. Cabin pressure at the present
time is holding at 4.9 pounds per square inch [33.8 kPa], with a
the cabin temperature is 66°F [19°C]. The Apollo 9
spacecraft will cross over the tracking station at Guam at 8
minutes past the hour. At 14 hours 51 minutes Ground Elapse Time
this is Apollo Control."
"This is Apollo Control 15 hours 50
minutes Ground Elapsed Time. Apollo 9 is just crossing the West
Coast of the southern portion of South America at this time and
should be beginning the eleventh revolution as it crosses the
meridian of longitude of the launch point of Cape Kennedy. We have
some two hours thirty-eight minutes until the Apollo 9 crew is
awakened to begin the next day's activities. Among these activities
will be service propulsion system burn number two which is
scheduled at 22 hours 12 minutes and 03 seconds. This 850
foot-per-second [260 m/s] burn will be primarily out of plane
however it will raise apogee by some 64 nautical miles [118
km]. The out-of-plane component of the burn will shift the orbital
plane back to the East to improve tracking for the activities later
in the mission, such as EVA and rendezvous. Most of these SPS burns
as a matter of fact are out-of-plane for this reason and also to
lessen the gross weight or mass of the spacecraft to improve the
RCS LM rescue capability and for RCS de-orbit at the end of the
mission. Here in the Mission Control Center, there's a cardboard
mounted cartoon behind Pete Frank's console, the Orange Team flight
director, It was drawn by Ed Pavelka who is the Gold Team flight
dynamics officer. The cartoon says welcome to Manned Spaceflight to
a Tenderfoot meaning flight director Pete Frank; this is his first
time out as a flight director. We are coming up in approximately 12
minutes on the Ascension Island Tracking Station. Our present
orbital measurements show a perigee of 108 nautical miles [200 km],
apogee of 126.3 nautical miles [233.9 km], total weight of Gumdrop
and Spider, the Command and Service Module and the docked Lunar
Module, is now calculated at 90,569 pounds [41,081 kg]. At 15 hours
52 minutes Ground Elapsed Time, this is Apollo Control."
"This is Apollo Control 16 hours 50
minutes GET. Apollo 9 is presently over the island of New Guinea in
the South Pacific and is within seconds of being acquired by the
tracking ship Huntsville which is hove to just east of New Guinea.
Earlier this revolution over the Acension Island pass Doctor Ken
Beers reported that the biomedical telemetry beamed down from the
spacecraft showed that Schweickart apparently was in a sound
sleep. The Command Module Pilot and the Commander are in the sleep
stations underneath the couches, the sleeping bags, where there's
no telemetry available because of the way the biomedical
instrumentation cabling is arranged, however the Command [sic]
Module Pilot Rusty Schweickart is in the couch with biomedical
telemetry available. It is likely that the two passes over the ship
Huntsville and Mercury which almost overlap here in this eleventh
revolution will be simply system status passes and no commentary or
conversation with the crew is anticipated since it is likely that
they are all still asleep. At 16 hours 51 minutes GET this is
Apollo Control."
Preparing for Sleep
Journal Home Page
Day 2
